This is Jocco podcast number 164 with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
I crept ahead a few feet and raised carefully to look over the bank.
Crack! A rifle was thrust up and fired only inches from Hales head. The bullet split his scalp and the concussion broke as it yeardrums.
Blood streamed over his face blinding him and I helped get him back to Stuart.
Then I pitched a second bomb, close in. Meanwhile, McIntyre had not halted. He had rushed on and Sambro and I half raised as we hurried after him.
A machine gun blazed at us from a spot on the right and we dove into the mud. Crash! Slam!
The stoaks gun was at work but it shells dropped short, falling almost in our path.
We rose again as the maximum stop firing, then a flaming white hot instant, a blivion.
When I recovered consciousness, my head was splitting with pain and a terrible nausea had seized my stomach.
The stoaks shell had dropped beside me, throwing me bodily into the mud and Sambro was stunned as well.
He was lying in the slime and feeling his limbs certain that he was wounded.
All around us was a frightful clamor of guns and bombs and rifle shots.
I heard McIntyre's voice shouting five rounds rapid, then it stopped, but my nose was bleeding and I was too dizzy to stand.
We crawled towards the sound, then halted. There was a great plunging in the murk and two dim figures came toward us puffing and blowing tugging at something.
They were Germans, big men, and a machine gun and tripod.
They placed it just in front of us and one man yanked at a long cartridge belt.
I pulled the pin from my last bomb and heaved the missile at a count of two.
It burst just beneath the tripod. One man went down like a huge tree, the other struggled a moment before he stilled.
We went by them, making sure the gun was ruined, and a new made crater found in man of a company with his wrist almost severed.
We bandaged him quickly and sent him back and were rising to go on when Clark came stumbling through the mud and yelled at us.
Come on, give them his shout was cut off. He pitched dead in front of us.
The man scurried by with a stretcher and we went over to the bank where we could see men moving.
It was Lewis Gunner and he said McIntyre had been shot through the stomach and was dying.
They got him on the old stretcher but he went on the to the short bank in front and found old Bill, Mickey and Johnson crouched there shooting in a German gun with that street sparks,
not more than 30 yards away.
Sambro had bombs with him and he and I hurled them.
The burst seems right on the gun and it was silenced.
I stared at the other man on the bank.
They were all dead.
Melville and Ira and Jennings lying there together rifle in hand all shot through the head by one sweep of the German gun.
Old Bill had seen it and stayed there after trying to pop the gunner himself.
The fourth dead man was porered Sam at rest at last.
We looked around and found all the rest of the party had gone but another fit of sickness seized me and I could not move for a long time.
Sambro stayed with me.
We did not go back.
We had to crawl a distance to avoid the machine gun fire but the main fighting had shifted over to the left.
A light vapor was stealing over the ground making it harder to see and I stumbled over a body as we found the road bank.
It was the professor.
Riddle with bullets dead.
He was covered with mud.
He had lost his steel helmet.
He had evidently lost in the darkness and there he lay after years of study and culture with glass eyes and face upturned to the sky.
A smashed cog of the war machine with not a hope of burial accepting by a chance shell.
And the mist thickened and rolled suddenly over him.
Night found us still crouched in our cover and I got up and went around the shell holes until I found old Bill and Johnson.
They told me that a relief was due and that there had been no orders.
Then a corporal from another pontoon came and called to us to follow him.
We were to go back to EPRES.
The 16th Battalion was relieving us.
We went and met the incoming man by our old trench where we're joined by the remainder of the company and heard that big Glen had been killed.
That is he died gloriously in the fighting at the graph house.
All that long drag back was a hideous nightmare.
The track was worse than when we had come and then the shelling was inciscent.
Incessant.
We moved with infinite slowness.
Every step of struggle, a tearing physical effort and a vast noise was all thundering, rolling, clamor that dulled our thinking.
Mercifully, some smothering, some of our agonized impressions of that night before.
The November rains were chilling us, freezing us, our feet were always soggy and we were almost despondent.
All that time we had been out, we had talked but little.
Each man seemed busy with his own thoughts, disinclined to speak to one another.
There had been too many of our friends killed.
The men we had been with for months.
I found that McCloud and farmer had died in the mud.
Egglestone had been wounded and placed on a stretcher and then he and his bearers were all blown to fragments by a big shell.
And porered, flinned, had been killed.
We seemed to move in a days to do things as if we were automatons.
When it grew dark, we moved again to form a new line.
The hun spotted us and started shelling while machine gun fire raked the ground.
Up him and I were together as we started digging, I saw a body just in front of us, a big man with his equipment over his great coat.
Catch hold of that stiff, I said to up him.
Pull him back here and we'll use him for part of our parapet.
He stared at me.
Don't yell, don't touch him.
I seized the corpse myself, rolling it over into place, and up him spring from where he had been,
spading and commenced out new hole over to the right.
A salvo of shells came and exploded.
Wizzing fragments were all around me, but I was not touched.
Up him fell and was dead when I reached him.
There was a strange cry further on.
It was the sergeant major who should have gone to the depot, the old original.
He and insisted and coming in for one more trip and his jaw had been carried away by shrapnel.
He died before morning.
Two other men were down, Johnson and Baron both wounded.
The shelling continued all that night and the next day.
We had dug deep, v-shaped pits, connecting some of them, and there we crouched, grey faces under muddy helmets.
Red, rimmed eyes, staring, dazed, wandering, our brains numbed beyond thinking by the incest and explosions.
One of the new men pitched down between our shelter and the next one.
He was pierced in a dozen places, and one arm had been sheared from his body by shrapnel.
Mickey sat beside me, shuddering, half-stoned, staring, unseeing.
His limbs twitching, conversively at each concussion.
And that right there is a couple of pages worth of reading of the book.
And we go on written by a guy by the name of Will Bird, who was a Canadian soldier that fought in World War I.
And like I said, that's just a couple of pages from the book, but the pages go on and on and on just like that war did.
And you you experience like the amount of people killed around him, wounded around him.
It's horrific.
And it's hard to even fathom.
What that did to these men before, during and after combat, physically and mentally and psychologically.
And the physical part, these are things that you can see.
You can see those wounds. You can understand them.
But the psychological part is perhaps the hardest to understand.
Now I say that this podcast is about human nature.
And the reason it is and the reason that I focus on human nature is because in my opinion, in order to lead people, you have to understand people.
You have to understand what their nature is. You have to understand human nature.
And a lot of human nature boils down to psychology.
And I recently got a recommendation from a trooper out on the inner webs, who recommended a book called Psychology for the Fighting Man.
And this is a book that was first printed in 1943.
And the book is an incredible book.
It's filled with an immense amount of very useful information.
And it's written as almost like a mental guide to the American military men that are getting ready to go fight the Germans and the Japanese in World War II.
Obviously, 1943, that's when it's written.
This is right in the middle of World War II.
And even though the book is 75 years old, the information that's in it, the knowledge that is contained inside of it, can still be utilized today in any leadership situation.
And in fact, this book is so dense with information that I'm actually going to split it into two separate podcasts so that we can go into some more detail and not end up with a 14 hour podcast.
So, let's kick it off.
Going into this book, as I said, the title of the book is Psychology for the Fighting Man.
And the subtitle is what you should know about yourself and others.
It kicks off part one, a psychology and combat. When the British 8th Army pursued the retreating access forces from Egypt through Libya, they found a long route.
They found along the route, great quantities of abandoned equipment.
Some tanks and guns in perfect condition and gasoline for the tanks and ammunition for the guns.
The physical material of a large access force was there, but it was useless to the access.
There were no men left to operate it.
You keep hearing it said that men cannot fight without weapons, but it is just a true that weapons cannot fight without men.
An army is men.
Not any men at all for a crowd of men may only be a mob, but trained and equipped men.
What sort of equipment do men of an army need? Plains, tanks, guns and jeeps, mortars, grenades, rifles and bayonets, camouflage and mess kits.
Above all food and water.
Everything that the ordinance and quartermaster can supply, but that is not all.
No, the men need morale. They need courage. They must have confidence in each other and the belief in ultimate victory.
Who is the quartermaster who can issue stocks of courage and confidence?
Yet these are essential weapons.
So, let's start off with a great point.
Where do you get your courage issued?
From the quartermaster, not from the supply guy.
No, it's got to come from somewhere else.
It is just as important part of winning a war as tanks, planes, bullets and bombs.
Going on, and the army must have leaders too, plenty of them.
Seos and NCOs, who supplies them?
Besides leaders, it must have all sorts of special abilities and skills.
Mechanical ability in particular is needed in this new mechanized war.
Ability in a drive trucks, pilot ability, mathematical ability, cooking ability, clerks skills, lots and lots of abilities.
You can't fight a war without them.
And the army needs efficiency too.
And efficiency means not only effective organization.
There is also basic efficiency of the individual man.
His strength and health, his resistance to hardship and fatigue, his alertness, even when fatigue and despite freezing cold or exhausting heat.
Toughness of body is a weapon indispensable to victory.
This book is so straightforward.
It's just so straightforward.
And it doesn't pull any punches.
It's one of the best things about this.
And you can tell it's written, it's directed for it like the frontline,
Grunt Trooper.
That's who it's directed at.
And not just the infantry guy, but anybody in the army doing any job.
And it's refreshing to read something that's a straightforward as this book is.
Going on, the army has a perpetual problem of psychological logistics, a problem of the supply of motives and emotions of aptitudes and abilities of habits and wisdom.
How does it get this mental material to the right places at the right time?
That is what this book is about.
So again, it's looking at the psychological aspect of warfare and saying,
How do you deliver these necessary supplies?
We need courage, right? We need abilities. We need emotions.
We need aptitudes. We need the right habits. How do you deliver those?
Back to the book. If the army cannot find a man with needed ability,
an effort is made to find one with an aptitude for being trained in that ability.
And then it trains them all.
In part by teaching them the rules and the techniques in part by giving them practice.
No troops are ready to go into combat until their training period is over.
And even then they are still green troops.
The training is still going on in combat until finally the men are seasoned troops.
Have learned how to meet the unexpected emergencies of war and have acquired that competence and confidence that is the basis of their courage.
It is this human material that determines more than any other one thing whether an army will win or lose.
Guns and chow are essential too, but given equally of supply, victory goes to the better troops.
Troops composed of men who know their jobs and do them willingly and well, men with initiative to act by themselves,
the trained troops which make up the season to army.
There are more over fundamental differences between people that affect their ways of fighting and their abilities to fight.
Differentes are not however due to blood as the Nazis teach, but mostly due to training, tradition, home life and other things that have a powerful effect on the character of men.
War is waged best by choosing methods of warfare best adapted to the nature of our own people and opposed to the nature of the enemy peoples.
American men have no particular love for killing.
For the most part, they hate killing.
They think it is wrong, sinful, or nearly punishable by death.
They do not look upon death as a beautiful and glorious experience, and most of them do not consider the military life as a suitable life work.
War to American men is a dirty, disagreeable business to be gotten over as soon as possible so that we as a nation can get along with what we were happily engrossed in.
Inventing, producing, growing, making life more useful and satisfying.
Americans can stand along hard pole.
They look forward, not back.
They are slow to accept war, will not go all out until they are attacked or are sure their ideals are engraved danger.
But once they have started, they do not stop or spare themselves until the goal of victory seems to them to be secure.
Perhaps in 1919, they made a mistake about having already made the world safe for democracy, but they would not have stopped, had they not fought themselves safe.
Nor will they stop now.
They are not demoralized by temporary adversity or single defeats.
So, some good info right there, clearly trying to set the mental attitude of the American young American soldiers that are reading this.
We can stay at the long hard pole.
If you mess with us, we're going to finish it.
We're not demoralized by temporary adversity or single defeats, doesn't matter. You want a battle right on, watch this, we'll be back.
Continuing on, it has been said that war is inevitable.
That men are so made that they just have to fight.
That is true if you mean they have to be aggressive, that they need to have power and to use it, that they are forever wanting to change things that are hard to change,
so as that they can get on with better living.
But the fact is that they do not have to fight each other, and not many Americans agree with Hitler in thinking fighting other nations a good thing for any nation,
even when the ugliest ugly business ends in victory.
There are other things than men and nations to fight.
Men can fight calamity and disaster, flood, fire and famine with anger and zest, and even fight nature to prevent disasters happening.
They fight disease, having for a century been waging effective war upon it with a new mermal conquest which history now records.
They fight for freedom.
Freedom to worship as they wish. Freedom to think and speak as they please.
Freedom from want and poverty, freedom from fear.
That's the American and Democratic philosophy. The reason why America is now at war.
Every American ought to understand this to know why a nation that wants peace has to go to war.
Because nobody likes murder, you have to kill the murderers.
You cannot get along without police, and this war is a policing job.
It's a large-scale job because it is a total war.
So clearly this book is answering a lot of questions for an 18-year-old kid that's heading out to war,
maybe doesn't fully understand why or what's happening.
And here it is, just laying out, look, these people are bad.
We're good. We're the police of the world, which sometimes in today's time,
people take that as a negative. Like we can't be the world police,
but here he straight up, this straight up saying, yes, we are the world police.
There's bad guys. We're going to go put him down.
And it's interesting too. Nobody likes murder. You have to kill murderers.
That's the way it's got to be.
Again, you know, these days we get so desensitized by media, right?
By movies and video games and music talking about killing.
And I like that's just, that's the way we grow up.
But in these days, you had to convince people that, hey, this is the way it's going to go down.
You're going to go kill people. And that's okay.
Total war is just what its name implies.
War on all fronts with all possible weapons.
There's the home front as well as all the battle fronts.
There are also the military front, the economic front, and the psychological front.
Military economic and psychological warfare make up total war.
The Germans had that big idea first, but the Americans can fight the devil with his own fire,
and a hotter one, and are doing it.
The three kinds of warfare are all related.
A military success may also be an economic victory if it results in the capture of great quantities of
enemy material or blocks important supply routes to the enemy nation.
Or it can be a psychological victory if it lowers enemy morale,
helps to make soldiers expect defeat leads the enemy people to be ready to submit.
What I like about this idea of total war is when you apply it to other parts of your life.
Right? If you apply it to business and how you can't just focus on one aspect of business,
you can't just focus on, hey, we're going to go out and create something new.
Guess what? We got to create something new. We got to sell it.
We got to figure out the way to get the cost to produce down.
We got to figure out how we're going to beat our competitors.
We got to figure out how we're going to spread.
You got to figure out all these things total war in business in life total war.
Right? How do you win the total your life is war?
Right? Your life is a war.
You're fighting against all these things that are happening and you're fighting to win.
You're fighting to be healthy.
You're fighting to be financially stable.
You're fighting to take care of your family in the best possible way.
It's total war.
And all these things you have to fight all these fronts at the same time all the time.
That's why you can't sleep at night because it's total war in life.
Yeah. That's what you're doing.
So you can be like winning certain battles in life, you know?
Like you can have a great job making great money.
But don't exercise and be poor health.
Or opposite or what? There's so many like just as bad old as you know?
Yeah, absolutely.
And you have to be paying attention to those.
You have to pay attention to all the fronts.
Yeah.
And there's a lot of times where people get focused on one front.
And it just doesn't. It doesn't help.
And even like inside of a business,
you'll get a business when they just focus on one thing.
Yeah.
And they'll miss that they're getting flanked.
A lot of those times in this goes in life obviously.
That's what harm thinking of it.
Yeah. And companies where they focus so much on one thing.
And then a lot of times is because that thing is like,
it has a big payoff.
You know, like you get it seems like dang I'm getting ahead huge times.
Especially like at home, right?
Where let me just put in just a few more hours of work.
Right. A week from one to much three months.
And dang that paycheck comes in and you do so well for the come.
You go to work you the hero kind of thing.
And you're like dang I'm getting ahead big time.
But like something else will kind of falter which won't show itself right away.
You know, then when you like how you see get flanked,
you're like dang I hope just flanked.
You got to get focused on all fronts.
Continuing on an economic success of our own can lead to a military defeat of the enemy.
If it robs of him of essential supplies,
it can become a psychological victory.
If it disheartens him and makes him ready or to give in.
On the other hand, of course,
a military victory is useless if it leads to a psychological defeat.
The Japanese may have done a great may have done great military damage at Pearl Harbor,
but it resulted in net loss to them because the effect of uniting the Americans in anger.
Real defeats other than death are psychological in the end.
That's pretty powerful.
Real defeats other than death itself are just psychological, right?
So they're just psychological.
The enemy gives up surrenders.
You have to kill the enemy or make him surrender.
There isn't any other kind of victory.
If he is fanatical, you may just have to kill him.
Americans would rather just get him to surrender.
So this is something that's so important to remember is that
if you get beat, it's psychological.
If you're still alive, it's just a psychological defeat.
You just need to reframe it and how you're going to come back and win next time.
Psychological Warfare is the newest arm in war.
It is directed at opinion, belief, confidence, courage, and the will to fight.
It is both defensive and offensive for it tries to build up morale in our people and troops
and to break down the morale of the enemy.
The chief weapon of psychological warfare is propaganda.
The radio and the press are used to bolster on the home front.
The enemy is reached by newspapers and leaflets drop from airplanes and by short wave radio.
Propaganda, in spite of what many people think is not necessarily dishonest,
truth is often the best propaganda, especially when it is fed to persons who are starving for it.
The most effective propaganda must be founded on fact.
Must start from some important event that actually happened and is known to be true.
Then the propaganda interprets the event, much as a good lawyer, interprets evidence in favor of his client,
or as the honest advertiser makes a claim for his product.
This is another very important part when you're in a leadership position.
How much of being a leader is making sure that the propaganda gets out there?
Have you ever heard of this expression when someone says, you're not really going to tell your story?
Have you ever heard that before? Like a company.
They're out there trying to do great things and they are.
They're working hard and they're having some success but nobody knows it.
And when I work with companies, there are sometimes companies, no one even inside the companies knows about the successes that they're having.
They're failing to even spread the word within their own company.
And so they think they're getting crushed by the competitors because the competitors get with the competitors great at propaganda.
Every time the competitors sign a new client, they put out a big LinkedIn post.
They put in a big social media blast.
Hey, we're just the same.
It's great to welcome a board, our newest client.
Meanwhile, a company is not doing that.
So everyone inside the company doesn't know that we're signing all these new clients.
So this idea of propaganda is very important in warfare and in leadership and in business.
Yeah, and at the same time, you might have heard about this.
Probably have, you know how.
I think it was Facebook, maybe Instagram, I forget.
But they did like some study where it like it actually was linked to people getting depressed because of that.
And it's this this concept that concept that you just said, well, you know, people, this is nothing new where people they'll post just their highlights of their life.
Oh, yeah.
And then like me as just a normal person, I'm looking at everyone else's highlights of their life.
Dang, I don't live that kind of life.
I'm not traveling to Thailand.
Yeah.
You know, all these places.
And maybe I do, but that was like once last year.
And this, you know, it's seen me.
So it kind of, that it's like propaganda.
Maybe on purpose.
Oh, that's definitely not.
But it's like, yeah, it's like the perception, you know, where you have you, you know, your life and it's like the highlights are like one out of a thousand.
Yeah.
Everyone else seemingly is one out of one.
It's just all highlights.
There's actually another sushi restaurant tonight.
You know, where the bunch of girls.
Oh, yeah.
And a lamb or guini.
You know, when we're getting all that stuff, man.
And it's like everyone.
Yeah.
Except me.
And also it's kind of that feeling back.
Oh, echo Charles.
He's not.
Yeah.
What ever.
Not a fall for it.
Not a fall.
Yeah.
No, it's true.
It's true.
And that stuff does.
It does build up.
It does.
And that's like propaganda in your own life.
Now, believe you.
I'm not recommending that you do good propaganda.
All your it's the grab to show your positive life.
No.
No, I'm not saying that.
I'm saying don't believe the hype.
Military psychology.
Psychological warfare is not however the only way which psychology contributes to success and combat.
There are hundreds of others and soldiers and officers need to know what psychologists know and
what psychological methods can find out.
For instance, soldiers need to understand men in order to understand themselves and their comrades.
And officers must learn how to interpret and influence the conduct of those for whom they are responsible.
So this is exactly what I say all the time.
If you want to be a good leader, you got to understand people.
The soldier must know about human needs, motives and emotions about fear when it comes what to do about it.
About anger when it is useful when it makes trouble about zest, which is the core of good morale in a unit,
about anxiety and the sense of insecurity, about indignation against the enemy and irritation against comrades,
about the relation of food and of sex to military life.
He should know also of the relation of all these things to morale and thus learn how to avoid bad morale and to build up good morale.
Clearly, and this is not just true for combat.
This is true for life.
Every soldier ought to understand further the problems of the mental adjustment of men first to the army later to combat.
Why men feel insecure?
What makes for courage?
The signs of approaching breakdown.
How to prevent breakdown and what to do about it when it happens.
The selection and training of leaders for the army has become one of the most important problems in the psychology of war.
Not enough is known about it, but what is known to some should be known to all.
The good leader is the man who builds up morale.
How does he do it?
What kind of man must he be?
If he is a poor leader, can he become a better one?
And there are mobs and panics to be understood too.
Civilian mobs and panics may be the concern of the soldier when the populace gets mixed up with the fighting,
or when the enemy's home front begins to break.
Panics may moreover occur in well-disciplined troops if all the conditions for panic are present.
What are these conditions?
Why are seasoned troops panicked less than green troops?
The army placed each man with his talents where he will be used to his best advantage,
but each individual must know how to get the most out of his talents.
The primitive fact of combat is that man pushes when he encounters an obstacle to the achievement of his desire.
Push his more if blocked, gets angry if still thwarted, and then fights.
But to this fighting he eventually brings all of the knowledge and skill that is made him supreme among the animals.
He fights by learning how to use his eyes at night and learning how to arrange a system that will let him hear inside of an airplane.
He fights by selecting good leaders and good truck drivers.
He fights by understanding human nature in order to build up good morale that will overcome fear.
He fights by saying the right thing in the right way to the right people at the right time,
and sometimes that is propaganda.
He uses every resource of science and intelligence including psychology. He has to for this is total war.
I love to get about that.
Every aspect of your life is to be prepared for total war, which by the way you're in. You might not be in combat at this moment in time, but you're fighting.
You're fighting all the time. You have to bring every asset, every resource that you have available.
You have to bring it to fight because this is total war.
Now, the book goes into some pretty big sections right here. One of them is a weapon.
It's a weapon and then hearing as a tool.
It literally talks about how to see better things you can do to make your night vision better,
how to preserve your night vision, how to see sharper.
Just all those things you talk about camouflage and stuff.
And then it talks about hearing and what you need to hear and how you can adjust your hearing and how to listen sharply.
I'm not going to talk about the site piece, but I'm going to talk about the noise.
There's some interesting points about noise.
Loud sounds, especially when they are sudden and strange are natural causes of fear.
Many sounds are terrifying.
A sudden loud noise like the discharge of a pistol will make anyone blink and jump. It will start to limb.
This is true even of well-trained men who pride themselves on their familiarity with firearms.
It is an instantaneous response that may be all over before the eye can see it.
It shows up however in slow motion pictures.
Season troops get so that they don't appear to pay any particular attention to the den of battle.
Even horses will stand still under the rising roar of a diving bomber will only toss ahead impatiently.
The experienced soldier on the other hand needs first to become adapted to the noises of war.
He must be exposed to them in training as much as possible.
After the noise has become familiar, its loudness will not affect him so greatly in combat.
Control over noise makes it less fearful.
You don't mind the noise of gunfire, so much as you are the one who is doing the shooting.
So talking about getting people used to the loud noises that you are going to come up against.
This is something that we used to do.
I don't even know if guys do it anymore because it's probably not that smart.
But we used to do immediate action drills with no ear protection in.
So we'd get used to shooting guns and having all that just massively loud noise.
We wouldn't do it every time, but we would do several rounds with no ear protection.
This is broken in theory.
Now, in current times, guys have these nice headsets that have noise, there are noise canceling headsets, so they're actually pretty awesome.
So it's not that big of a deal anymore.
But back in the day, they wanted to make sure, hey, you've got to realize how loud this is going to be if you get in a firefight.
If you get in your first firefight, you've never had an M60 machine gun two feet away from your ear.
You get getting crazy laying down a hundred round belts.
It'll be a shock to your system.
So that's what, and not to mention, they're hugging, you know, grenade simulators at you and artillery simulators.
There's explosions going off because that's what that's what they're trying to do.
Get you used to that scenario.
Men subjected to the excessive noises of war over a long period.
Sometimes it build up an over-sensiveness to any sort of loud, sharp report.
They are in the state of a man with a hangover.
The bang of a door will make them jump.
A loud shout is painful.
The noise of a truck exhaust is frightening.
In the hospitals where men are convolicing from bad cases of these warnerves,
the dropping of a pan will startle a ward full of sleeping men so violently that the jerk will bring them out of their sleep and even.
Out of their beds and onto the floor.
But this state of nerves, the link to in their minds with the noise and produced by the noise is do mainly to more disturbing things that have become associated with the noise.
Noise is just as loud and originally just as distressing as the noises of war.
If they are only just a part of everyday work or fun are tolerated, men become used to the dinner of a boiler factory or a pneumatic drill.
It may defen them but it does not demoralize them.
So that's pretty obvious, right?
What's making these noise is horrible to use because every time a bomb goes off, you see your friends get blown up and killed and you're afraid that the same thing is going to happen to you.
Whereas a pneumatic drill, you're just making a bunch of noise.
So you're not that worried about it.
This was, again, there's a lot of real basic information.
You can imagine this book being issued to frontline troops, but I had to call this one out here.
To sooner or later, most soldiers have the experience of getting lost.
And heavy words are jungle, just posplicate lost a few yards, just a few that yards off the trail.
It gives a man a peculiar helpless feeling.
You are so accustomed all your life to knowing where you are and who you are and about what time it is that the feeling of not knowing one of these things comes to the end.
These things come to the great shock.
And then it goes on a little further.
It says, a compass is a big help.
But I was like, yeah, yes, it is.
Indeed, there's another real captain obvious.
It is best to have a map in your pocket when you get lost.
If you can't have one, then you have to see one before you get into strange country.
So that's real obvious too.
The more a soldier knows about maps, the better equipy is for combat duty.
His training and how to read them and what to look for on them.
If he keeps practicing it, it should enable him to find himself if he ever gets lost and any training knows from map.
And the reason I called that part out is, think about all the situations that you get in, where you have the opportunity to gather some intelligence before you go into them.
You know, if you're going for a job interview, what can you know about that company?
If you're going to meet with a client, you've never met with before.
How much information can you have?
With these days, you can Google someone, you get all kinds of information.
You go to their LinkedIn account, you can find out where they went to school and what sport they played, whatever you go to their Facebook page.
You go to their give pull-up articles that were written about them, and there's all kinds of intelligence you can gather.
There's no reason to go into a meeting blind anymore without knowing the terrain that you're getting into, without understanding the culture that you're going into.
There's no reason for it.
Next, work in the army is much more than just shouldering a rifle and doing long foot marches.
Soldiers work at several hundred different kinds of fighting jobs, and at even more kinds of jobs,
to directly relate it to combat and some not, which can be filled with men already trained for them or men who have the necessary aptitude for learning one of the jobs quickly.
Leaders have the responsibility for seeing that the right man gets the right job and when mistakes are made, that misfits are transferred.
And this thing is this where this book gets pretty politically incorrect.
It's basically saying, look, some people can't do this jobs.
Some people aren't fit for these jobs and some people aren't fit for these other jobs.
Continuing on, thousands know how to drive a tractor, how to repair an ignition system.
Well, the castings repair watches other timing instruments or road transit keep accounts.
Carve carcasses of beef develop photographs.
The army needs many men who can do these things.
The British found that out in the first world war.
At first, they neglected to save their specialists.
They sent to the front professional men engineers and men in skilled trades.
Many were killed in the early months of the war later than need for them in special posts behind the line became acute.
So yeah, this is all about forming up an army of civilians that have skills and saying, oh, you've been a truck driver for whatever, for six years in the civilian sector.
Guess what you're going to do for us, you're going to drive a truck.
Oh, you're a butcher guess what we need butchers and right on down the line and you can imagine.
World war one probably them being very short sighted on how long that war was going to last in like, oh, oh, you're a mechanic cool.
We're just going to send you the front with everyone else and you're going to die like everyone else.
And you look up in six months or a year and they don't have the necessary support logistically to carry on the war.
How soldiers differ.
Men differ just as much inability to learn different sorts of duties as they do in size of feet in height or in weight.
Some are as much as three times as able as others.
I like that. Hey, some people are just three times more capable than you. That's the way it is.
Most of course are just about average.
Some men cannot learn a three figure telephone number by hearing it once. Some can learn as many as nine figures.
The average is around six or seven. Have you heard that before? Have you heard that the reason our numbers are seven inches long is because that's about the average that a human can memorize.
I'm saying no, I haven't and that's very interesting. I heard that could that possibly be not gross science, but urban.
Yeah, could it be an imagined it could be. It's true. I like it.
Yeah, it's awesome actually. Well, you, well, you have your doctorate in gross science.
And urban legend back to the book. Some men starting from scratch can learn in eight weeks to receive and send radio code at 16 words per minute.
It takes others twenty two weeks.
Some men used to handling certain types of machinery can learn to handle certain kinds of weapons much faster than others.
So the problem is to understand and measure aptitude aptitude is potential skill. The capacity for learning to do something quickly and accurately when given the chance to learn.
Both speed and accuracy are important in learning. A soldier needs to learn rapidly, but also to be accurate at what he's learned.
And men differ from one to another in both ways.
For one thing, men differ greatly in the speed with which they learned. Some aviation cadets can solo solo after four hours of instruction.
Others are not allowed to solo even after 14 hours. Here the quick learners are urgently needed.
Slow learners tie up the training planes too long. Besides quick learning might mean a shorter war.
Yet the army cannot do without the slow learners. Man power is needed. And there are many military jobs which require other qualities than speed of learning.
Jobs which the slow learners will prefer to have.
Men also differ in speed and accuracy of reaction. The average driver requires from one half to three quarters of a second to put on the brakes after the stoplight goes red.
Yet some can apply the brakes in three tenths of a second. Others use up to a whole second.
These are important differences for riflemen and machine gunners as well as for truck drivers every tenth of a second counts in battle.
You ever see that thing when they were.
They would do like the speed test for conamer Grecker.
And he was the fastest athlete they had tested.
He had like reaction time. When you see something you touch a button or whatever.
Whenever they have these little tests set up then apparently Grecker was the fastest athlete that they had tested.
Which is crazy.
It is crazy because you know some of these baseball players.
I think that would be the fastest high and high coordination.
I mean, yeah. I've talked to my head seems like it. I mean because those balls come quick.
Yeah. There is a test you can do when we're kids.
You know in science class.
You know they you get a ruler.
Yeah.
And then you put a put it on your finger.
Between your fingers right at the zero mark.
He dropped it and how quick you can.
How far do your fingers have to be open?
I don't know because it seems like that could be an advantage.
Little bit of my grandfather used to do this.
He was called the dollar drop.
Okay.
And he would fold the dollar lengthwise only to make it kind of aerodynamic.
Yeah.
And if you can catch the dollar you could you could keep it.
Okay.
Yeah.
It sounds pretty easy.
Doesn't it?
Yes.
Sir it does.
Some people can't catch that dollar.
But yeah.
So it's the.
Yeah.
So you think if you're you know you're saying you just said how far your fingers.
The thing is for the experiment as long as you designate kind of that.
No.
Or even eyeball it.
Yeah.
You know it might be a millimeter difference.
But you know usually it's like.
But there's always those people are looking for that edge.
Right.
So it's actually a little bit like.
Because I'm thinking I would be.
Figure out how.
Because I used to do that with a dollar drop right.
I'd get my fingers here.
Yes.
That makes sense when the you know the dollar drop has more stakes.
First year.
But even the most important pulls out that.
You're really the guy in science class who wanted to win though even though wasn't a competition.
Of course it's a competition.
So.
And I don't know.
I'm pretty sure that that stuff can be trained as well.
And that's one thing that.
You know when you when you're bringing your kids up.
You bring them up and you make them play multiple different sports.
You don't focus on too young because they become they don't they don't develop
up the broader athletic skills.
So you're supposed to.
Get them involved in a bunch of different sports.
And those kids will end up even if you took one kid and you say,
Oh, you're just going to do 100% football is whole life and you took another kid and you did multiple sports.
And but you did like a little bit more of a focus on football.
The chances are.
The kid that did multiple sports, but focused on football is going to do better than the kid that just did football.
From what I understand.
I'm sure there's some broad science people out there that will.
Object to my statement.
Makes sense, you know, we brought more broadly athletic.
Yeah, like you can and pretty I do imagine you be able to learn quicker too because your body is used to moving.
No different ways rather than just the way.
Yeah, because what are you doing things are a little bit different out on the football field.
Right.
There's little situations that can unfold.
And if you're athletically adept at adapting to various situations, you're going to be better off.
Yeah.
That's true.
Going on.
Men differ also in the speed and accuracy of perceiving.
One clerk can check in five minutes a company roster that takes another man 20 minutes.
Some men can see a white target in the dark 400 yards away to others.
It is invisible at 200 yards range finders differ in their ability to tell the distances of different objects.
When the job is seeing, you must choose the best seers.
So that's interesting because you can have someone that has bad reactions, but they'll see you really well.
And if you ever read and sure, at some point we'll do Chuck Yagers book on here.
Matter of fact Chuck Yagers on Twitter.
I don't know if you know that, but Chuck Yagers on Twitter.
And I'm gone back and forth a couple times people have said come on the podcast, but in his podcast or in his book,
Yager, he just had incredible vision like he'd be flying information and he could see the enemy way before.
And way before anyone else could see the enemy.
He'd be like, oh, boggies at four o'clock, boom, we go.
And because his eyesight was apparently just amazing.
And that used to be a big deal for fighter pilots.
I think it's the less of a big deal now.
Could you got radar and all that?
So it's not as big of a deal as it used to be.
Just your eyes against the enemy's eyes.
Back to the book.
There is however much more to a good soldier than speed and accuracy with which he learns acts and perceives.
Every man has interests, likes and dislikes.
These determine in part what he will do well and how fast he will improve.
A man's interest, for instance, usually determine what he will do with what he learns.
Mirror exposure to training never made a skilled soldier.
It is the interested man who remembers and profits by his training and is ready to apply it to new situations.
Right?
So true.
How true?
It's just so true.
So true.
We don't, and what I think is really important about this from a business perspective is what they're basically saying is put the right people in the right job.
That's the overall concept to put the right people in the right jobs.
That's what you need to do.
If you've got someone that might not be super talented but they're very interested, they're probably the better higher than someone that's just got a bunch of talent but doesn't care.
In fact, I'll go ahead and say they straight up are the better higher.
Yeah.
They'll wind up learning like so quick and you're specific.
Think.
You know, you're specific.
They're into it.
Someone that's not into it, that's bad.
Oh, like someone who has like a major degree and you know, his resume is not a degree but like, hey, I'm really into whatever it is that you're doing.
Like for instance, you like making videos, you're into it.
Right?
Sure.
If you didn't like making them, if you got no enjoyment from it, think of how horrible it would be to try to get you to do it.
It's pretty hard to get you to do a video right now and you actually like doing it.
Yeah.
Or, you know, like politics, right?
You know, how like some people, they like politics, some people don't.
So you get someone who likes politics and then news comes on.
They're going to be all up in there, learning everything what's going on like today.
You know, then someone who's not there like all the news on let me watch.
Yeah.
Well, that's an interesting, I thought you were going to say that people that are into pop because I actually, that's one case where I would disagree because a lot of times people that would be
really like politics, you don't want them in politics because they're just political machines, right?
You want a normal person.
Oh, yeah.
I just don't normal every day.
You know what the person that's like, you don't have to do.
I'm going to be president.
I'm going to be, I'm going to be in charge.
Like that person you don't want to be president.
Yeah.
My question is like, look, I don't really want to do this.
And I think the other thing is, because when it's all hungry for the political life, they're there.
They're a arrogant person that thinks that they should be in charge of it and it's like now.
Yeah.
I don't want it.
Like on TV, like so like me, if I watch, I don't know, like okay.
So well, that's kind of a good example because I'm interested in Hawaii.
Yeah.
So, you know, I'm not like, but like, okay.
So on, so I make videos, right?
Any some some visual effects, whatever.
There's a YouTube channel called video copilot.
Right.
So all of this, it's mainly just tutorials on how to do stuff.
That's all it is, really.
So when that like if a new video comes out or something, man, I'm all up in there.
All up in it, but you don't care.
But you're going to watch that thing and you're going to, you're going to, you're not even going to click on it.
Not even close.
No.
Unless I was like, my wonderful one to take Echo's job.
Or okay.
So okay.
Case in point.
I'm not interested.
Right.
So I could barely even get through one of those videos.
That's why I'd be like, now I'm going to go over here and do burpees.
Yeah.
Exactly.
If I say, hey, Jock, go click on this video.
This will make, you know, you're brought in your horizon.
I don't know, whatever.
Click on this video.
And just watch the whole thing.
Watch it five times.
Actually.
Bruh, when you're done watching it five times, it's about everything went over your head.
Yeah, don't care.
Right.
You don't even care.
So advice from this book is put people that are interested in the job.
Truly inherently interested in it.
They're going to do a better work even then maybe someone that's more talented than they are.
Back to the book.
Other personal differences besides interests and likes and dislikes are important, especially for some military tasks.
One may feel, one man may feel completely ad-ease in the transparent cage in which a bombadier must sit.
While another ordinarily dexterous is so upset in the exposed position that the pupils of his eyes dilate his fingers
and the bombadier can't manipulate the bomb site properly.
So there you go.
You got a guy that's probably a better maybe as quick a reaction times, but he's just scared to be inside the turret.
Yeah.
Two equally wise officers may not be equally good leaders.
One is at ease with his men talking with them freely getting their slant on matters of importance
and giving his orders and directions readily.
The other, although he wants his men to like him and respond alertly and willingly to him as a leader,
cannot bring himself to feel free and confident with them and open up with them in a way to gain their confidence in liking in turn.
The first is of course the better leader.
So there you go.
That's like straight up, hey.
This person, if you're more comfortable talking to your troops, they're going to sense that and you're going to be better than someone that's not comfortable talking to the troops.
Indeed, leadership is the quality that the army most needs.
All advancement brings with it responsibility and responsibility for the conduct of others requires leadership.
That's interesting because what's interesting about that is that is
it goes into this later on talking about the, we probably won't cover until the next podcast on this book,
but talking about the, you know, our leaders born or made.
And this is clearly leaning a little bit towards born, clearly, which I agree with, I think leaders are born and made.
Yeah, it feels like a lot of times when people use the expression or they born, whether it be leaders, whether it be whatever, you know,
or he's a natural, whatever.
I get the expression and I'm sending an angry, of course, but technically, like if you say if your leader is made or born,
born meaning like he wasn't trained at a very specific point to be a leader, he brought to the training or to the position,
just a bunch of like talent or whatever, but he probably learned that through like his life.
What he was exposed to, what he was, you know, true.
But there are certain aptitudes that people have and those play it in fact.
So if you have somebody that's really articulate, they're going to make a better leader than someone that's not our team.
But even if someone is articulate, they learn that through sort of life, there's no possible, but some of it, maybe there's a shorter tongue or something.
Because they have to be genetic, what I'm saying, I don't know if there's an articulate gene.
For sure, no, it's not a gene, it's your brain.
How much capacity do you have the process words quickly and assemble together and descend, this isn't put them out to your comprehensible statement.
How can you do that? How well can you do that?
Yeah, but you're not born and going out of to, I guess, yeah, it's like a process.
Yeah, you have what, yeah, that's it.
What process or what size, process, or do you have in your brain?
You got the old 486.
What is it?
You got the new Pentium, whatever.
No, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's like a I7 or I9.
I have no idea.
Anyway, but no, because there's, there's artically people who don't talk fast.
Or don't, yeah, that's not the idea.
You're able to assemble there.
Okay, here's another one.
And this one's, and I've talked about these before, but the ability to look at complex problems and simplify them.
Sure, some of that is learned.
Some people just are born with it.
Some people learn it in the streets.
Yeah, I think my, I'm drawing back on my bro's science background.
And I do think, I believe, I'm under, I believe it.
It's a belief that you get it from like, like you're getting some of it from life.
But I guarantee if you take someone that had a twin brother and you, one of them would be more apt at some of them.
Or apt at some things than the other one.
There's gotta be some things that you are better at than your brother naturally and some things that your brother's better at than you.
I don't know of any, but I mean, put it this way.
All the differences that we have, I feel like I can map it back to why.
Because just being second born, I was born a little bit smaller too.
Not looking me like a bigger kind of like, I don't want to be bigger.
Especially people would compare too, you know, like growing up with a twin brother.
They always compare.
They always live a little bit tall.
They use reddish, skinny ones.
Yes, or whatever.
They train that no more are the one.
Anyway, the point is, I'm not saying, I'm not saying you're, I think you're probably right, of course.
But I think it's mostly learned.
Bro, people have a certain,
genetic cognitive capacity without question.
Yeah.
That's not even debatable.
Yes, I would not debatable.
So what we're talking about is the ability to take that cognitive capacity and steer it towards the articulation of language.
If you have more cognitive capacity, you'll be able to articulate language better.
And there's probably little modules inside the brain that are genetic that have even more capacity for the grabbing and assembling of linguistic patterns together
where they flow off the tongue rapidly and sensibly.
And there's got to be part of your brain that's better at that just genetically.
Now, of course, if you spend a lot of time in that arena, you will get better at it over time.
But there's got to be some just like you have X amount of fast twitch muscle.
And echo Charles, like how hard did you work at your vertical jump?
Did you guys test that in football?
Yes.
Okay.
What was the highest vertical jump you ever had?
39 and an hour.
Okay.
That's pretty good, right?
Is there a way that people on your team that worked harder than you if not harder that never got to 39 and a half inches?
Probably yes.
Actually, yes.
Oh, I think that's a very good thing.
Yeah, because I didn't really work exactly.
I knew this was a loaded question.
So, yes, sir. So, somewhat, there was someone on your team that they worked and they trained and they were doing jumpswats and don't
Gary and lunges and split squats and they were just trying to get that vertical jump off.
They were wearing, remember those shoes with like the little dead bull?
I was on them.
I just get them hops.
When you get them hops.
So, this guy had all those things.
And he only got to 32 inches, right?
And he was bummed.
Yeah.
But that's what I'm saying.
Yes.
He has a certain genetic.
A genetic capability.
There's physical capabilities that are genetic and there's some some mental capabilities that are genetic.
And both of them have a max capacity.
And that dude with the toe shoes for vertical jump improvement that warm all some.
There was a kid one time.
He lived across the street for me.
And he was young.
This is when I was probably 25.
I was in the gym back in the day.
But this kid trained all summer long with those shoes.
He was, he wanted to do his dunk a basketball.
Yeah.
And he did it eventually.
But he worked hard.
There are some people that don't even have to work hard.
They can dunk a basketball.
They just got it.
Yeah, man.
My friend Kate Knott, who I mentioned.
Can Kate Knott's dunk?
No.
We're talking about some different attribute.
Now he always had like kind of like big, it's called big muscle bellies like the party or muscle.
Anyway, he had kind of big muscle chin and it gives a thinner guy.
But and he was always cut.
So even into adulthood, he wouldn't have to watch his diet.
Me and while if you're like a normal person, if you watch your diet like a lot, then you can get that cut.
You can get there.
Oh yeah, totally can.
But Kate Knott's just cruising.
He's just cut shred abs.
And then he like lifts a bunch of weights over the summer.
What's work on I gave him by the way.
And he glistled by, he comes back and he's just huge.
But anyway, so it's like dang.
But you know, he just has it like that.
There you go.
Genetic, genetic differences.
And that's what they're talking about in this book.
And I think sometimes people's attitude nowadays is like, well, you know, you can do whatever you want.
Well, to know actually you should find out what's good for you.
Yeah.
That's a digital look for me.
Like I was a radio man.
You know, it was like radio man.
Why?
Because I was like smart, but I was big enough to carry a radio.
Right?
The small guys in the sea of the tune, they become the point man.
Because you don't have to carry an extra weight, generally.
So you're so right.
And consider like major industries and we'll just say sports, right?
Where it's like, it's pretty clear when you win, you win when you lose you lose sports, right?
So get the established sports.
With very, very few exceptions is going to be the case.
You're going to get like, okay, football.
Because there's a bunch of positions that do very different things.
The tight end, he's going to be a certain bill, generally.
For sure.
The quarterback, he's going to be a certain bill and receive or he's going to be a certain
Build, the center and the line, certain builds.
Like you grab a guy from a line guard, right?
One of the guys in the line, you put him on defense as like a cornerback or something.
Who needs literally opposite after you know what you do that to it happened.
So oh, no, no, no, just train them.
Train them for 10 years.
No, no, negative.
Probably make him better, but you make him successful.
Exactly.
Right?
So it's like it's such a clear example.
Because there's more on the line with that, you know.
So if you're a youngster, you should look at your attributes and see number one where your attributes fit and then what your interests are.
Sometimes people get their super interested and so they just try for it anyways.
Yeah.
And that's cool.
That's cool.
There's some people that would get really good at a sport, but there's still not good enough to go pro because they don't have the genetic.
Yeah.
And gifts that are needed.
And that's why it's so prevalent and such a like big deal when you do find the like the super rare guy where it's like, hey, he's not really genetically gifted, but he works so hard.
That he made it to the pro.
Yeah.
And typically that's like a guy in basketball who's like not tall, not fast.
You know, like the knocks and the knocks.
Yeah, but he was a pretty fast though.
And he could jump.
Well, well, but he's small.
Yes.
And the thing was talking to Dallas who's the coach of the goals, the same thing.
The goals, the team.
Yeah.
But a few years ago, not very long.
The hockey had become all these big giant guys, you know, six, four, six, five, two hundred and sixty pounds.
He's big monster guys.
And that's where everyone had started going in that direction.
All the teams are getting bigger because you guys are massive.
They can hit hard.
And then recently it started going back again to guys that were smaller and quicker and could be a big monster guy.
And could move faster.
So that's an interesting evolution.
Yeah.
But you can look at it.
You could have looked at it four years ago or whatever it was.
I don't really know.
But 10 years ago, whatever, when if you were five, eleven, you're like, man, I'm not big enough to play pro hockey.
But some kids were like, you know what, I'm five, eleven would be fast.
I mean, faster and everyone.
Okay.
Cool.
And they made it.
And now they're in the game.
Yeah, make sense.
Yeah, I'm not as familiar with like the necessities of being a good hockey.
Player or team as far as a physical attributes.
But like football used that big, that example because the jobs of each position are so different.
I meant not each position, but like the differences between, you know, like a cornerback,
why do you see we're in the difference between that and like a line man.
So yeah, that's what it's gonna be.
Yeah.
So like basketball is different.
Even though they have different positions where everyone has sword at,
I'm generally speaking, of course, this exception.
But everyone's gonna be tall.
No one's gonna be slow.
If you're like slow, it's like that's a big kind of deal.
You know, everyone's a little bit more uniform.
Yeah, hockey seems the same way.
Yeah, more uniform, hockey is more uniform.
Seal puttune is not uniform.
Yeah.
Because you got a big 60 gunner.
And a peg gunner.
Yeah, makes sense.
But you know what, not all peg gunners are big.
Yeah.
Because you can just be a tough.
162 pound peg gunner.
Just can't go.
Just can grind it out.
Point man's usually a little bit smaller.
But that's, but when you get to a seal team, guys look at you.
You're like, oh, you're, you're five seven, you're 140 pounds.
You're gonna be a point man.
That's the way to work.
Yeah.
Most of the time, sometimes you get a puttune and then like we already got a point man dude.
You're gonna carry a peg.
Here you go.
Buck up and start doing some squats.
Boy.
All right.
Personality.
It takes more than brains to make a good soldier.
It takes guts.
It takes endurance.
It takes a willingness to do hard to work.
It takes a keen interest in doing the job well.
Psychologists wish they could give the army right now a method of measuring these important
Pack personality assets.
Test that would be as accurate and reliable as a test for measuring the ability to do arithmetic
or aptitude for learning radio code.
They can't.
Some tests have been tried.
Many have been found useless few are promising.
You know what's interesting?
I just thought of this.
I went to communication school.
The the seal communication school.
And we had to learn Morris code.
And there was probably 20 guys in my comms course.
And we all had to learn Morris code.
And this was very clear that some people were better at it than others.
Because you had to and we didn't have to send very fast.
But we had to be able to receive like a certain amount of groups.
It's called a group.
It's five.
Five letters in a group.
And they would just come at you.
Yeah.
And you had to be able to receive and write down what the letters were with no mistakes.
But what's interesting is we all showed up no new anymore code when we showed up.
And there was a complete bell curve when we got done.
You know, some guys were really good at it naturally.
And it took every ounce of mental power for them to figure out and get to be able to pass the test.
And I had a crazy guy that was teaching the comm school.
And someone would be like, hey, chief, why do we have to learn Morris code since no one uses it.
And he said, you know, in the event of a nuclear holocaust, Morris code is the only thing that's going to be punched through the ionosphere.
And of course, I was 18 years old and I was like, oh, dude, that's right.
Right.
I was, you know, my interest was peaked.
I was like, hey, in the event of a nuclear holocaust, I'm going to be on the HF radio hammer
and out Morris code to the troops.
Let them know what's up.
That makes sense.
Dude, but I was.
What do you mean?
So what?
You don't agree with that?
Dude, if there's a nuclear holocaust, I wouldn't be alive.
Well, what if it would be dead.
But you know, what if you're like one of the only shrubs or if you're right.
So if I was like me.
But it's so, man, that's interesting.
That where you'd have to, I mean, that small little thing that you just had where you have to,
it's less about putting it out of it's more about receiving.
Because Morris code, you don't communicate necessarily.
No, you just got to use it.
Here's the reason.
Here's the reason behind it.
If you want to send Morris code, you can send it with your money.
You can't.
Because the people are just going to sit there and take the letters that you're sending.
Right?
They're not saying hurry up.
Right.
So you can send it whatever pace you want.
But receiving, you got to be ready.
And I figured you would have to send it to them.
I think what I want to say was 20 groups of men.
And there's something like that.
What's the path?
You mean like not passing it.
I forget I forget.
But we weren't as good as a regular Navy guy who would just be,
I don't even know what, but they way faster.
We were like knuckle draggers compared to that.
They're like a leg.
We had to learn every day.
And you had to do it every day until you tested out.
And some people tested out in a few weeks.
Some people didn't test out until the last days.
Sit there, do more.
You just code.
Do you still know more, Scott?
Not really.
What if it came in it like,
B.
I would need to brush up on it.
No, I need to brush up on it.
And which I need to do because if there is a new get a hall cost.
I want to be ready to get comms out.
HF comms.
Yeah, every single, of course.
Yeah.
Check.
But it's such a clear example of.
And the guys, it wasn't like on that bell curve of guys that were good and bad.
I'm like, everyone that was a good seal was up at the top.
And the guys that weren't good at Morris Code were bad.
Seals know it was like some of the guys were awesome guys.
And they sucked it Morris Code.
Yeah.
And some guys were marginal guys, but they were a great Morris Code.
And there's a perfect example.
Like, what do you do with that guy?
I don't put him in a make him a radio man.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
Yeah, he had kicked that.
When he was going through, I think this,
but no, no, it was after.
He kept saying, like, man, actually my other friend Jeremy was telling me that,
oh, yeah, he's good at, like, pretty much everything.
Yeah.
He's just really good at stuff except for picking locks.
He was like struggling with like, he could go locks,
which was kind of a random thing to struggle with.
Pick and locks is a difficult thing.
And it's a, it's more like playing a musical instrument that it is like doing a technical skill where you do ABC and you get D.
No, picking locks is like you got a little art man.
You got a few for it.
And I've been with guys.
I was okay at picking locks.
The guy that I learned from was he could walk up and put the, you know,
walk up to a door knob and stand, not facing it and just stand there and just pick the lock open in seconds.
It's pretty incredible.
Kind of like on that movie, the Italian job.
You ever watched that?
No.
Yeah, it's a good one.
So this girl she was like the safe cracker.
You know, they're like a den of thieves.
They're this group of thieves.
So she was the safe cracker.
Guess what her dad was.
That's a lot of safe cracker.
You know, so it was like a genetic thing.
They're good.
You know, so the dad passed it on to the, you know, it's like genetics.
Some people that's how, you know?
Yeah.
Maybe it's a learned behavior as well that she learned from the old man.
All right.
Going on back to the book.
One trouble is that a man's person, this is important.
One trouble is that a man's personality changes in different situations.
For instance, the man who's brave is a lion in the test room at a reception center.
May not be so brave when he gets into combat.
The man who is able to make quick decisions wisely when things are quiet may go to pieces
when he is distracted by machine gunfire and do something that result in his own death or the death of others.
And difficult situations may have the reverse effects on some men.
Men who have never distinguished themselves in training camp may become fired with new spirit
when the going gets tough, astounding themselves and other men with what they can do in extreme emergency.
So that's obviously important too.
So even though you know someone, you don't even know him.
You know what you're going to get.
You might have something that freaks out when things go sideways.
Next section, training makes the soldier.
When men enter the army, they are told the importance in the fighting areas of taking cover from enemy fire in sling.
And when men be fired in slit trenches, this point is emphasized in books, lectures, training films, demonstrations and exhibits.
By the time the soldier reaches the battles on his own, he is learned that he should take cover in a slit trench whenever he stops.
That is one kind of learning.
In one way, it is the most useful kind.
With knowledge of how things should be done and why they are important,
a soldier is equipped to act in new situations.
And there is nothing that produces so many new situations as combat.
But this kind of learning, unfortunately, does not always result in action.
A soldier may know perfectly well that he should dig a trench.
He may have learned it from demonstrations exactly how to go digging it.
Yet when the enemy planes come overhead, he may in his excitement, forget that what he was learned.
In such emergencies, he is more likely to act from habit than from reasoning.
And since habit formation is a further stage of learning, it depends on practice experience and repetition.
No action ever becomes automatic by learning in words, how to perform it, but without actually practicing it.
But by repetition, the operation of a machine or a rifle gets itself reduced to habits so that it becomes almost entirely mechanical like walking.
You do not have to think about putting your left foot forward after planning your right foot ahead.
That is because you have walked so much.
You could not get that way merely from listening to lectures on how to walk.
If during maneuvers, a soldier practices taking cover instantly,
whenever he sees your hears an erratack warning or plane coming close,
if he always throws himself flat when he first hears the sudden whistle of a shell or the singing of bullets passes ears,
these actions soon become second-major to him.
The particular warning sites and sounds become fixed as signals for immediate actions.
In real emergency, the soldier does not have to stop and think about what he should do.
He just does it.
Straight forward, that's why we roll in jujitsu.
That's why you look drilling is important. I get it.
You got to learn the move, but you got to roll.
Yeah, and one could argue that drilling serves the same purpose just in a more specific way.
It does.
It does. You got to do both.
Yeah. Now, if you drill correctly, but what you can't do is sit there and get shown to move.
Right. You got to do the move.
Yeah.
And I used to do that too when we'd have guys going through CQC training.
And a lot of times, you know, instructor might want to hear himself talk a lot and explain things.
Because you know, it's a poem to the ego and you get up there and you show people what to do.
What?
Which is how I did it.
Burt and you're doing it like this.
So, you know, you get instructor that wants to hear himself talk and meanwhile, they sit there and talk for 20 minutes.
The seal puttune could done three more runs through the kill house in 20 minutes.
So, I'll tell you what.
Say what you got to say. Say it quick and let the boys go pull that trigger because that's how we get good by doing.
Back to the book, this sort of learning of minor importance in high school or college is basic in the army.
That is why drill is so important. Why discipline is so essential.
In war games, the soldier gets conditioned to all sights and sounds of battle in early training.
It may be possible to simulate realistically the noises of shells, dive bombers,
and bursting bombs by recordings reproduced by loud speakers.
In advance training, a soldier may be taught to lie flat on the ground while real bullets strike within a few feet.
If the cause sand to fall on the back of his neck, he knows he is safe as so long as he lies still,
but if you get up and run, he will be killed.
That is good training for combat.
A real bullet forms much better habits than a lecture about a bullet.
Such thoroughly drilled habits enable the soldier to act when there is no time for fought.
They ensure that he will act correctly and mechanically even as mine is confused and thinking is almost impossible.
But knowledge of the science of warfare and practice in solving novel military problems are important too,
because they enable the soldier to act wisely in the thousands of unexpected emergencies that arise in battle.
Habit is safer than fought for standardized acts, but it won't work for brand new problems.
That is why we would train our guys in brand new problems all the time.
That way you get a protocol for how to handle brand new problems.
You start to understand what you are going to do.
I don't know what is happening.
What I am going to be going to be a step back.
I am going to look around.
I am going to set a situation.
I am going to come up with some possible solutions.
I am going to think about what the outcomes and solutions are, what the risks are,
and make a decision we are going to move forward in that direction.
Because like,
confronting or dealing with new problems or uncharted situations or whatever,
the skill of dealing with that is like another skill in and of itself.
You think you are saying this like last time.
Yeah.
Protocol.
People are asking about protocol.
Protocol for handling new problems.
And eventually you get good at it.
Obviously, obviously the first thing is you do is you detach.
You have to take a step back.
You have to turn around and look around.
Physically look around.
So detach.
Look around.
Making assessment come up with possible solutions.
Think about what the outcomes of those solutions might be.
And then pick the one that has the best possible outcome.
Pretty different than like.
Trained level 10 training.
Yeah.
Perfect training on situation ABCDEFGH.
JKLMLP.
Yeah.
And cue.
Because you're going to get hit with Z.
Yeah.
When Z hits, it's like dang.
Can you then you've totally shut up?
I just got a message from a guy that was in a police officer.
It was in a big firefight with some of his guys.
And he was literally said,
I was like thinking to myself, I'll get cover move.
Here's what we're going to do.
Prioritize next to you.
He was going through.
He's like, there was pretty awesome.
Pretty awesome.
To hear a guy say, yep.
I can hear your voice saying cover move.
Put down color fire right now.
Yeah.
When it's going down.
They were in a 21 minute firefight.
It's a long, long.
That's a long firefight for especially for police officers.
Back to the book.
Drill for combat changes the recruit squad into an efficient fighting machine.
Training can convert an unorganized civilian group into an organized unit with deadly power.
Military confidence,
moral versus strips of war of its most repulsive and paralyzing horrors.
And knowledge takes from the enemy his most potent and effective weapon, surprise.
Drill combat training practice and discipline combined with the experience and war are things that make America's combat troops into seasoned troops.
So even taking away the ability for the enemy to surprise you.
It's like we talked about before.
If you try and move on the NGJ2 and you have never seen it before, there's a chance it's going to work.
There's the best possible chance it's going to work.
As soon as I know what that move is,
I mean, then it's the chances of it working are a lot less.
A lot less.
Significantly less.
Yeah.
That's why roleplaying is so important.
Well, in the business world, it's very important because we can come out to you with different things.
That is a subordinate.
It's going to save you.
Yeah.
Or even up the chain of command.
If I had to go brief my boss on something that we were pretty sure he didn't like.
And I was like, okay, I go you be the boss.
You come at me with all the negatives about the plan I've come up with.
And then we do that.
So then I go in.
I've already seen these.
See the series though.
Yeah.
Even one time makes an incredible difference.
Back to the book and we need speed.
Democracy is always after hurry up at the last minute.
The enemy is always facing us.
Ready trained and there isn't much time.
We must take advantage of every possible shortcut toward the goal of creating seasoned troops.
Troops armed with etiquette at equetraining.
The first shortcut is an understanding of the few facts about how learning takes place.
The most important requirement of learning is incentive.
Men marching to drill reluctantly can know more be taught swiftly and efficiently than a Jeep can be taught to run on.
And then we need to be taught to run on an empty tank.
People need incentive.
But fortunately for the army's instructors, there is a powerful motive for furnished by the situation itself.
No false incentives need be thought up and provided.
The enemy has attacked us.
We are at war and no man wants to go out and face the that enemy unprepared.
No American wants to see American soldiers killed needlessly in unmatched battle.
No one wants to see our armies defeated and the Gestapo policing New York City.
Success itself is a reward to the soldier.
It makes him proud.
This is when they start, I forgot to say that I'm skipping chunks of this book.
But this is where he's talking about how the incentives that a soldier can have.
His commander may commend him, but it's usually enough if he sees that a seal has noticed that he has done a good job.
Good morale depends on such rewards.
A pro.
A such awards by his officers and approval from his own comrades.
In general, reward is much more effective for learning than is punishment.
This is good.
Punishment excites resentment and tends to make the soldier anxious not to comply if he can get away with careless and
discerpt disobedience.
If you can remember that right there, this podcast is worthwhile.
If you remember the fact that as a leader, if you're constantly punishing people, what you're doing is it making them resentful,
encouraging them to not comply and rebel against you and trying to get away with careless and disobediates.
Think about your kids do.
Because we do that with the kids, you're better to what I told you.
They try to try to escape around you.
The reward keeps his attention on the business and hand.
Punishment tends to shift his attention from the task to his own troubles.
The best kind of reward because it is most effective in learning is the glow of satisfaction that a man has when he knows he has done something correctly and well.
It is clicked.
The most effective punishment is the surge of disgust that comes when he knows he's missed the target.
That sounds always good to have a reminder because it's natural to like, I mean with your kids or whatever,
when they do something wrong, because that'll stick out more in your mind.
They do something right, especially if it's not for the first time.
It's like, oh yeah, that's how you're supposed to do it.
Right, kind of think so to stick out as much in your mind to commend them.
Yeah, like encourage me to reward kind of thing.
It's more powerful, but then in your mind as kind of the teacher or whatever,
when they fail to miss the mark, especially if they do it like if they're having a hard time with something.
You know, like to learn stuff you gotta do it over and say, they're having a hard time out of no swimming, potty, train, or whatever.
When they don't miss the mark yet, so it comes with frustration sometimes.
Can't show that kind of thing, but even though it's like the most readily available reaction,
you know, the one they fail. So yeah, to be reminded of it helps, I think.
Yeah, it's an important point.
Next, this is why the Army has to, has been right to reduce greatly the emphasis on close order drill in recent years.
In the light of modern knowledge and in the view of modern conditions of warfare, this drill conflicts with the methods which must be used in battle.
So close energy drill is our close order drill is when you know you see the Marines army, they're like handing the rifle back real enforce and everything's all.
It's like parade type stuff. That's our close order drill is, and they do more of it.
Now he's saying that they do less back to the book in the drill of the early basic training.
The whole emphasis on teaching is on teaching the soldier to respond to spoken commands.
When he yet when he goes into combat, spoken, spoken commands become impossible. The human voice is silent in the din of battle.
If commands are given it all, there must be given in the form of a nudge, a kick or an arm and hand signal.
And in drill, the soldier also forms the habit of acting children to shoulder with other men.
He comes to rely on being in a group on doing what the other men do when they do it.
Yet in combat, such close order work would be suicidal.
Men are on their own. Men are then on their own or in twos or threes.
They must keep at a distance from each other, both to do much of their fighting skillfully and to avoid making crowded targets for the enemies, bombs, shells or bullets.
This means that in advance training, men must learn new habits which conflict some respects of the old.
That's not good. The basic rule of learning is this, do it right from the beginning.
Because if you form wrong habits, you must unlearn them before you can learn what is right.
The rule to follow is never prepared for combat by learning to act on a signal that cannot be given after combat has started.
And then it talks about how to increase the speed of training.
Here's some things to do to increase the speed of training.
Number one, do things right the first time.
Number two, keep constant checks that you know immediately whether you are doing right or making a mistake.
That's a good one. That's why I like shooting steel so much.
If you were shot steel before, no.
As soon as you pull the trigger and the shot goes, you know if you hit it or not.
And so it's completely gratifying.
Make no unnecessary motions.
If you flourish your hands or putter around with your tools, like it or not, these profitless motions will become habit too.
So when do everything as clean as you can?
Do things in the same order and in the same way stick to this rule as far as possible.
Avoid unnecessary lead links in the chains of your learning.
This was interesting and I'm not going to read it because it went on about learning Morris Code.
And how you can put these multiple different steps in to learn it.
In fact, you could just say that noise means this letter.
You don't have to translate it to the little things in your mind or the sounds in your mind.
The dot dash dash dash or you don't need to translate that in your mind.
That sound means this letter and you can get there quickly.
Like a language really.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
When you're fluent in a language, you don't think in English anymore.
A little bit of a thing.
Yes.
I don't I rarely go.
Maybe gotten to that a little with a few parts of espantial when I was in college,
but I never carried on a conversation without translating when I was hearing, which is completely lame.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's a clunky for sure.
Yeah.
But you know, that's part of the process of it.
Number six, aim at first first smoothness of performance rather than speed.
Number seven.
Be sure to understand what you are trying to do.
What final objective you're aiming at.
That's important.
People should really, whoever you're training needs to understand what they're trying to do.
I found this in early jujitsu.
There was a lot of lacking in this.
Where you didn't understand that getting the underhooks was a thing.
You just understood it.
Like for this particular move, you put your arm here.
I didn't understand it was a whole thing.
What would it matter be like, hey, you're always looking for the underhooks?
Yeah.
Make sense.
That's actually what Dean taught me.
He is the one to taught me that too.
And this is when he was a blue belt.
Yeah.
Number eight, learn series of actions rather than single moves.
That's good for jujitsu as well.
You don't just want to learn a one.
You want to learn how all those three four five moves tied together.
And how you set up the counters and how the counter leads to another trap.
Nine, keep on practicing.
Ten overlearn.
Number eleven, relax.
Interestingly enough, till people to relax and relax, harder.
Back to the book, ways have been worked out to help cut down the time required to master a subject to reading, understand a book or assignment to solve a problem or to memorize a rule or formula.
The man in the army, this is about studying.
And I was like, I don't know if I'm going to put this in there.
But then all you know, people are students.
We would have a new job.
And I learned something and this is the most cold, blooded way to talk about learning.
The man in the army should not allow noise or other distractions or interrupts it to put him off his work.
Working under such difficult circumstances is direct training for actual fighting conditions.
Also there's some annoying things going on when you're trying to read a book.
Cool.
Learn to ignore them.
In the field, the most, in the field, the most vital and difficult decisions must be made in the midst of the most violent
distractions and under all sorts of physical and mental strains.
The officer had to wait until he could be free of noise or disturbance before he could work out a problem or make a decision would be useless in the army.
If he's used to it, a certain amount of noise and confusion may actually stimulate the army man to do better thinking.
If it's convenient, a definite time of the day should be assigned.
For studying the mind can be trained to be ready for work in a certain hour.
It happens as much the same way as you begin without being thinking about food or some other set time.
For the same reason it might be desirable to have a certain place set aside for study even if it is just your bunk in a noisy barracks or tent.
Then the act of sitting down in that place will immediately form habit.
Put you in the proper frame of mind for mental work.
If you are lucky enough to have a desk or a corner for your study, don't spoil its value by using it for relaxation or a no-fing.
But even if they are insistently disturbing, insistently disturbing is nearly always possible to ignore distractions and get down to the business at hand.
The mind is an excellent, sieve net.
You can read the newspapers and never see the advertisements.
You would hear a strange footsteps across the room yet never noticed the loud ticking of a clock on your own table.
The telegraph can sleep through the long continuous sounding of his instrument yet wake it once his own call when his own call comes in with the right dots and dashes.
In the same way it is possible to make yourself deaf and blind to all sorts of sights and sounds except those directly concerned with the problem being studied.
Do you get annoyed when you are trying to do what? Do you listen to music when you are doing work?
Do you think the depends on the work?
Yes.
Interesting.
At first it is fatiguing to shut out distractions. You know what I am like? I was just asking it.
This is what I am like.
If I let something start to bother me then it just bothers me.
And for some reason if I just don't let it bother me then it's fine.
Like my wife is in the other room with my youngest daughter and they are playing a game and making noise and having conversations about it and whatever.
If I am in the wrong mind said if I don't do what this book is telling me to do it you just shut it out.
Like a legit dude is supposed to do all there is to know is it is whatever.
Just lock it up.
Otherwise it is what weakness is.
Like you know you heard like a roommate or what but you know you have a mutual friend that when we used to go to fights we would stay in one room and the story would be pretty crazy.
But I would normally sleep right through it.
If I know what is happening it is weird like my crying kids when they were babies they would wake up my wife and my wife and I would sleep right through it.
But if there is a noise outside the house or whatever I am awake and she is sure it is like the perfect combination.
I think the mother and the crying child I think that is a genetic thing.
I think we are like a crying baby like you know did you know that in the house of brocids?
Does that make sense?
Yes it does.
And is there part of me because you know when we had small children my wife didn't work I did.
So that was her roles and responsibilities.
My roles and responsibilities were go to do my job during the day and whenever I was in the Navy her roles and responsibilities were to take care of those kids.
So there is probably a huge part of that where I am maybe in the beginning when the first baby was crying and I was like oh what is that?
And then eventually I just said oh she has got it.
Yeah that makes sense.
Got it handled.
Going back to the book at first it is fatiguing to shut out distractions.
You actually make your muscles tense and you are effort to attend to business.
Later you get so that things that distract you no longer worry you.
No it's when I'm on an airplane you're around screaming baby on an airplane.
Yeah no factor to me.
It's like no factor whatsoever.
Yeah we talked about this while we were on there.
Okay you brought it up too.
I was like oh you're that screaming is that bothered me?
Yes that's bothered me at all.
Still later they help and find that you miss them if they disappear like the man who has startled when his clock stopped ticking or the radio.
At first it prevents you from studying but if you keep it on continuously you may get so you cannot study without it.
Having set the stage as well as possible for most effective study the next important preparation is to develop
absorbing interest in the material to be mastered.
It is not necessary to resort to self-delivered mental pep talks.
Enthusiasm grows naturally out of the realization that a study is important in reaching a desirable goal that it will satisfy your curiosity
and will give you a chance to exercise some special talent.
Isn't that funny how that could very well be a self pep talk that those words are actually true.
True.
The chief aid to learning however is understanding when something makes sense when it all fits in with what you already know that it is easily filed away in the ready reference system of your memory.
Where it can be recalled later at need.
Learning without understanding is hard.
You probably learned the multiplication tables that way.
Learning with understanding may require no effort at all.
So try to understand sea relationships.
If chapter 8 depends on chapter 2 then you are uncertain about chapter 2 turn back.
See the depends.
Work it out for yourself rather than read it again.
If you learn a new scientific fact, see whether you can find instances of it in your own experience.
And then when you think you know it, when you think you know what you have studied, say it all over to yourself in your own words.
That test understanding.
Sometimes it gets clear for the first time as you explain it to yourself.
And if you can't get it said to your own satisfaction, then chances are you really do not understand it.
And what you don't understand you won't remember.
That's good information right there for the students of the world which everyone should be.
This is other good information.
Solving problems.
The method of bird's eye view first applies to rapid problems solving as well.
Haste too often tempts people to plunge into working out the first part of a problem or the easy parts before the entire problem is clearly in mind.
This may result in a fall start and needless work.
Read the whole problem through first.
Use care and setting the problem down.
If you are new at this particular sort of problem, don't try to take shortcuts in this.
A little extra time used on formulating the problem in your mind or on paper can save a great deal of time in finding the solution.
The next step is to rapidly review all possible methods of solving the problem until you find the one that seems right.
Then try that. If that file fails to work, try another.
That's the way you work with a mechanical puzzle.
You should use the same method on the technical problem.
And this is the same exact thing that I was saying about how to solve a complex tactical scenario.
You take a step back. You look at what the problem is.
You make sure you understand the whole problem.
You just don't say, oh, we're getting shot out from over there.
We're going to change everything in focus on them because you're getting flanked.
Yeah.
Or you're getting some recon by fire over there.
So you take a step back. You analyze the situation. You make sure you've understood it to the best of your possibility.
And then you start saying, okay, what are my options?
Once you figure out what your options are, you quickly assess what with the results of those options be.
What's the upside, what's the downside and then you pick one of them you go?
It's so funny that exact thing, not as complex, but that exact thing played itself out in my life very recently.
So I got a trampoline, right? You know, those big ones.
They're your kids.
And you got to put it together.
Yeah.
And then look at the whole structure.
Well, I do this thing where that they said I forget how they know it.
Said it the words they'd be using the book right there.
They you just said, but basically I looked at it.
I didn't understand the whole thing.
I didn't read the whole answer.
I don't know.
I looked at it. I was like, oh, I understand.
You know, I see the problem I'm dealing with here.
So I did it and how that worked out for it.
It broke three separate times.
I went, you know how like at a certain point you got to make sure you got to do something.
It's like that kind.
So I did make sure that the springs were aligned, you know, certain way.
For a reason that's going to come up late.
Yeah, that's right.
So I'm like, I get it.
I'm smart.
I've put on all this through the whole thing.
Everything took like an hour,
and we'll just over an hour to do it.
So I keep going, keep going.
Keep going.
Now it's time to put up like the, you know, the little barriers.
Yeah.
Kids don't fly out there, trampoline.
But the springs, or the springs are not aligned with hooks there.
So I can't put up the barriers.
Yeah, it's bummer isn't it?
It's a freaking bummer.
Yeah.
And it happened again with another thing later.
Actually, having four times, but the fourth thing was just the little basketball hoop.
And I was like, it's not worth it.
Yeah.
So I never put on the basketball hoop.
But yeah, I mean, if I were to under,
to read the whole thing, read the whole thing and I wouldn't read it.
Would it say me like three hours?
Back to the book.
When you are stumped,
maybe because you have taken the wrong approach to the problem,
it's easy to get into a rut in thinking.
And it's hard to shake yourself loose from one point of view
and see a completely new one.
This stuff is so simply stated that it's,
you underestimate the power of what's being said right here.
Yeah.
This stuff is life savers.
You tend to keep going back and repeating this same old kind of attack
that has always failed.
It's like feeling in the same,
it's like feeling in the same pocket six times when you've lost your cigarettes
and cannot find them.
Especially is it hard to try new methods when you are tired
or nervous over your failure to get the right answer.
At such times, it is best to close your book and work on something else
or to do something outdoors with fresh air
or even if you can afford the time, take a nap.
When you come back to your problem,
the new approach may come to you in a flash.
And from then on, the work may go quickly and smoothly.
Yeah.
I have to actually, that's one of those things.
I'm pretty instinctive on a lot of things that I do
in terms of things that I talk about
and the way I actually apply them in my life.
I'm pretty good at most of them.
Most of them, I'm not even, I don't have to consciously.
I can't kind of look back and go,
I see what I did and I'm really stoked on it.
I can do that, especially in GJ2.
I can get in a rut and be like, oh, I'm just going to do this right here
and it should work because I've done it before
and it's going to work this time.
And I'll have to consciously, oh, you're beating your head
against the wall.
And I'll have to do a different approach.
Yeah.
But I mean, that's very, it's kind of demonstrates you humility
because you've always, like, every time we roll in at,
actually, when I see you rolling with other, like, really good guys,
it seems like you adapt and make little changes
way quicker than most people in for dang sure way quicker than me.
I feel like I'm all that.
Like what you just said, I feel like that's just 100% me.
Yeah, yeah.
No, what I'm saying is, but I'm sure I'm okay at it.
I mean, I know I'm okay at it, but even me,
at this point, I'll be like, oh, he's not going to put his arm there.
You've tried it three times in a row.
It's not working.
You need to do something else.
Yeah, you can recognize me.
I recognize when I'm beating my head up against the wall.
Yeah.
And that's not a good feeling.
And it's, but the great feeling is as soon as you do something different,
generally, you may not get told success, but you won't get the same outcome
because the outcome is failing, which we don't like.
No, no, no.
How to make learning stick.
The two basic principles of learning anything are interest and participation.
It is not true that repetition alone is the basis of learning something well.
A man who repeats an act again and again with his mind only half of what he is doing.
It was mind only half on what he is doing.
May indeed learn it, but he will learn it neither quickly nor well.
Fortunately, doing a thing and practicing it usually reinforce a man's interest
so that there is really only one important principle,
interest at the bottom of learning.
Active participation is secured by practice lectures are used only when preliminary explanation
at some length is needed, or when men cannot be put through the work itself.
You're not only told how to fire a rifle, you are helped actually to do the firing.
And you work out of doors in the way that you will later work in combat.
You do under instruction what later on you are going to have to do in combat yourself.
So you have to do these things.
Interest is secured in a variety of ways.
Number one, the personality of the instructor is important.
It should be dynamic and fort.
It should be a dynamic and forceful person who appreciates the fact that learning takes time
and that some men are slower than others.
He must stimulate his men to want to learn.
Two instruction must finally become individual.
There must be close contact between some instructor in every soldier.
Three, the relation of the learning to the problems of combat must always be stressed.
Four, although non-essentials are admitted in army teaching,
it is important that the soldier should understand the basic principles of what he is doing.
If he is learning how to use a machine, then he should know how the machine works.
Critical.
And number five, the soldier must also have full knowledge of the purpose of what he learns of why he needs to know it.
Only with such knowledge can his interest be at the highest.
And only with such knowledge is he able to adapt what he has learned to different circumstances that arise in combat.
So he's got to know why.
And it also says here that all army commanders are leaders and teachers.
So if you're a leader, you are a teacher.
Talking a little bit here about efficiency and training,
the simplest kind of learning is to learn by trial and error, but this isn't the best, the most efficient way.
The way too much time ends are the army never uses an except in solving original problems where one method after another may be tried or at least imagined.
So trial and error is never the best.
Here's a good one.
In battle, a leader can give orders, but only brief ones sometimes by signal.
The soldier receiving such an order must also see the battle situation right around him in deciding how to best carry out that order.
Next, how to speed up training.
Will to learn soldiers' common sense tells him any must learn how to fight before he meets the enemy.
Number two, interest.
Number three, discipline.
Soldiers are trained to realize the serious importance of the things they are taught.
How much these things will mean in combat later on.
Number four, individual instruction.
Number five, experience of success.
Army instructors try their best to see that each man does a thing right the first time,
even by holding his hand and putting it through the correct movements if necessary.
Number six, elimination of non-essentials.
You've only supposed to be learning things that you actually need to know.
Number seven, all around attack.
Every possible way of reaching the soldier's student mind is utilized.
And then this instruction is immediately put to use in action on the job.
Soldiers learn by doing so as far as possible instruction is kept practical and concrete.
If an instructor puts too much emphasis on training men in the particular details of doing a job,
soldier fails to get a clear understanding of the result aimed at it.
Although men in training, although in training men in many different army jobs,
adequate attention must be paid to the detailed steps to be taken to reach the final objective.
The aim itself must also be made entirely clear to the soldier.
This is cool when I train little kids and jiu-jitsu.
I'm like, you just gotta get around their legs.
And you tell them that and they'll figure out how to do it.
And then when they get stumped, you teach them some actual technique.
Otherwise, he's apt to become confused in battle if the situation changes and he cannot follow the steps in exactly the way he was taught in training.
Efficiency in the army, every ounce of the soldier's energy should be concentrated on the defeat of the enemy.
Whenever he waste his strength on any sort of activity that does not contribute to that one end, it is an effect casualty.
No where is efficiency more important than in combat.
There, every man must work at the very peak of his powers.
His eyes must see better than the enemy's eyes.
His ears must hear better.
He must think better.
On this victory depends.
Wearyness, tired hands, or eyes, or nervous system.
Anything that reduces the soldier's efficiency at a critical moment in combat may cost him his life.
It may cost the army a position and advance a battle.
The enemy usually refuses to recognize the end of a work day.
Nature often provides the only lighting.
Bomb holes and sure ventilation.
When a soldier gets an actual combat, one of his calls upon to do seems to have no similarity at all to anything he had ever done in a civilian job.
There is no routine in battle, no standardization, no monotonous repetition.
Each moment is a challenging new experience calling for new decisions and fresh insight.
It is hard to see where the combat soldier can get any help at all from what he has learned about efficiency in a factory far from the battle zone.
That is why a soldier in training must learn from the start to cut out useless and round about movements that take need of this time.
Seconds count.
And a soldier's energy counts too.
He can't afford to get worn down before his job is done. He must keep his speed and accuracy up to top notch performance.
Any blundering combat may be fatal.
There he may not be able to miss an aim again.
He may never have another chance.
Now we get into this last little section that we're going to cover today.
It's about fatigue.
But sleep.
That other enemy.
Fettig is a fifth column enemy that is always ready to infiltrate and attack.
No man can stick at a job for long periods through the day and night and continue at top notch performance,
especially if his job involves using a great deal of strength, keeping alert and making accurate split second decisions.
So you're allegedly need rest.
I posted the other day sleep as the enemy.
And people get so it's a song by dango Jones.
And it's a great song.
But I kind of do feel that way because it's pretty easy just to fold to sleep and spend all day.
But I know you don't see it that way.
But I kind of do.
Sleep as enemy just like food is the enemy.
Yeah.
If you start a pubic in making, you know, like,
Good.
Good man. Good point.
Just how long men can work and continue to do their best depends upon a great many different things.
It depends first upon the man.
It depends also on the type of work.
It depends upon the conditions of the work, upon the foodie, and upon rest obtained during the job, upon
worry and excitement and finally upon the necessity for action.
A man can run fast and long if death or the devil is behind him.
He can fight hard for unbelievable lengths of time if there can be no retreat or a victory is in sight.
Most hazardous is the fatigue which comes from spurts of extreme effort.
The greatest of which a man is capable such supreme effort seldom if ever occurs in any job on the home front.
It does occur in sport.
It does occur in battle.
It's spurred by the necessity to extraordinary violence a man may actually put out so much effort that he burns up his body fuel at a rate eight times more than the normal rate.
I have no idea where they got these numbers.
I had eight times more.
That's a pretty accurate.
This he cannot keep up more than a few minutes at a time.
Otherwise, the sugar in his blood will fail.
The fall to a critically low level. His heart will fail.
His collapse or even death will follow.
What do you think, bro science right there?
Well, I mean, then you make a good point where you.
Where you got these?
I don't know where you got those numbers from.
Well, we do people get rabdo.
Yes.
But you get rabdo. You don't like fail on the moment.
Your heart doesn't fail.
I would like the first thing I thought of is like in the digits or MMA where you get to be a adrenaline dump, right?
Because you're so like,
I mean, it's through adrenaline, but like it's these external circumstances like around the stage.
Usually it's in your competitions, necessarily in training.
So you're on the stage.
So it's win.
It's a door die.
Yeah.
On stage.
It's not a door die.
But that's what you guys are.
This is a common story.
Yes, but so.
I was just thinking like, if this is true, like when a guy gets gasped in the UFC,
and he just can't go on,
but then what if somebody came in there with a machete and was like run.
Or a hacky to pieces.
Yeah.
I think the guy would do.
Yeah, you run.
But that's like another level of stress.
So that's door die.
Yes.
That's door die out there on the UFC or whatever.
And that's not accurate.
No, sir.
It's not.
It's very inaccurate.
But as an example, it feels like that's, you know,
like, they're so, but they're using like probably eight times the energy,
you know, because they're so pumped up because of their on stage and stuff,
the nerves and all that stuff.
So it's like that.
You know, it's another weird one.
When someone gasses or whatever,
and then they end up winning.
And then they get that other surge from the other.
And then they're just like,
I don't know.
Yeah.
You're like, I'm just a couple of 10 seconds ago.
Why don't you put that effort out, bro?
Yeah.
So that proves.
I read about this in the field manual.
Like sometimes you got to use emotion.
Sometimes you got to use logic.
Sometimes you got to use that emotion come out.
Yeah.
So, but all that, the thing is like, that does sound funny and look funny.
If a guy like seems to be sort of guessing.
Then right, literally the second he wins, he's running with his hand in there.
But all that is, that's not like a, like a,
like a maybe a slack or a theerson, nothing like that.
That's like just the stress.
And winning is like, I don't know if I'd call it a stress,
but I guess this is what I heard this is.
I heard this from people.
I didn't really do this any official thing.
But you get like this boost of like hormones,
like testosterone and all these crazy hormones when you win the fight.
So maybe to that, it's like man, it's not like it's controllable.
You have to actually be confronted with a stimulus of winning for that free to get that boost.
Just like you're confronted with a stimulus of the crowd to get that overdrive scenario.
You're using eight times the energy.
Back to the book.
Yet such busy fatigue does not always make you inefficient.
If you have strong enough need or desire for action.
I like that right there.
Yeah, that's the machete scenario that you just introduced.
Sometimes I wonder if I'm like perpetually in a state of like,
or I wonder that my brain too.
Because sometimes I can't sleep at all.
I believe that.
And because I want to get up, I'm not like that all the time.
I mean, there's definitely days where I sleep really soundly.
But a lot of times it's like, no, it's not happening.
Because I got stuff I got to do or I'll war over here.
I'm lying over here.
I understand.
Mental work and emotional strain are also fatiguing.
But the man who gets tired from mental work or the strain of responsibility and
worry has additional problem. He may not consume the sugar in his blood as
does the man engage in a violent physical worker combat.
His blood therefore gets out of balance.
This is gross science coming out.
And the rest of sleep may not readily restore it's actually weird because
it's gross science, but it makes sense.
Yes.
I guess all gross science kind of makes sense.
That's gross science, right?
It is good for the man who's been under this sort of strain to get
some sort of physical exercise.
A swift game of tennis.
A long walk or a turn at shopping would.
A second effective fatigue is the tired feeling.
I think that's funny.
This is nature's natural protection against over fatigue.
When a man feels tired it becomes increasingly difficult for him to go on with his
job. He is more and more eager for rest and sleep less and less able to
spur himself on to go another mile.
The best antidote for this feeling of tiredness is high morale and the example of
other men.
It is the man working alone who has the hardest job in combating his own desire to lie
down and sleep.
But the most important effective fatigue is the effect it has on work.
When a man is tired he doesn't.
He cannot do his very best.
The amount of work he is able to do falls off and the quality of his work suffers
too. He does not see it as well.
It does not hear as well.
Nor is he so alert.
His movements may become clumsy and bungling.
In loss of loss and efficiency,
strange that may seem is not always related to feelings of fatigue.
A man may feel very tired when he has not been working particularly hard but is merely
bored or uninterested in his work.
When the ventilation is so bad that he gets dopey.
This is important. On the other hand, a man really close to exhaustion may be so excited
by his work that he is unable to rest and is not feel tired at all.
Consider this.
That's what I think.
Consider this like,
indudiu.
Right now, if I were to talk enough smack to you right now.
No matter how you feel, you be tired.
You can be one hour sleep. You can be doing all this stuff like before and whatever.
You can be tired.
Talking enough smack and telling you to roll outside. You'll probably do it.
There's no problem.
Yeah.
But if I say, okay, after this, go run on a treadmill.
It's easier.
I'll put.
Well.
I guess I kind of walked into that.
Anyway, it's debatably easier to run on a treadmill.
But man, you ever run a treadmill?
I've been riding a treadmill probably 10 times in my whole life.
Yeah.
And you know, I used to get into a treadmill, but man,
if when you get when that boredom hits you,
probably you're like, I can't run on a step on this damn thing.
Even though I could easily go train right now.
No, it's like a bunch of good guys.
Yeah.
So it's like, it's that exact thing.
And then you get bored, like, just a little bit of fatigue.
It's going to jam you at big time.
But even if you're really fatigued and you're doing something fun,
you'll go.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
For sure. That's why you did too such good exercise.
Because it's fun.
So true.
Men differ considerably in the rate at which they get tired on the same job.
They differ even more in their rates of recovery after work is over.
There's almost no general rule as to what will happen,
except that recovery is very rapid at first and slows down as the rest
of the approach.
The fact means however that a lot of good can be got out of short rest
and that many short rest are better than one long one.
That makes sense to me, taking a little power nap.
Students learn best if they do not do all learning at once.
Do not try and cram up before examinations,
but study a little and then quit for a while for a day or two.
In industry efficiency is highest when rest pauses are arranged at frequent intervals.
I agree with that. Although sometimes I just pull through stuff.
So it does not pay to overwork workers or soldiers.
Some fatigue is unavoidable and much fatigue must be undergone in the process of
toughening a soldier.
But chronic fatigue is not to be found along the shortest road
to victory.
So don't get tired.
Now it gets real specific on sleep.
You can stay up all night and keep awake.
And this I was surprised how accurate this reflects me.
I think you'll find it accurate as well.
You can stay up all night and keep awake provided you are active.
Provided you keep using some muscles at least the speaking muscles.
You can march all night play poker all night, fight all night and talk all night.
You will likely you will likely to get terribly sleepy somewhere between 0,300 and 0,600.
Unless you are doing something exciting or intensely interesting.
But you can get through that provided you are active.
So like this would happen a lot.
You go on a patrol and you patrol night to get to a position.
And then it's now 3 o'clock in the morning.
And that's when you get tired 4 o'clock in the morning.
You have a better that's when you get tired.
Then this happens.
You actually continue on.
That does not mean however that you can read or study all night using few muscles other than those of your eyes.
You have to study all night you may need to read out loud or stand up to read.
By the time because basically and that's totally true.
If you have a work to do and you're up working it's fine.
But if you are going to read this book in the next 10 hours and you're falling asleep.
Yeah and that's one of the reasons why if you like let's say you have a normal schedule job like a 9, 2, 5 and then you want to work out or go to your kids or something after work.
Don't go home.
Because when you go home you should run on the couch for a second or even if you just like you know just talk to your wife or whatever it's like.
Like rather than go home straight to the gym and you're that way.
That's advice you've ever given.
Seriously.
Like if you want to train don't go home go to the gym.
That's very good advice.
Then it goes on in it says by breakfast time you will be getting less sleepy.
And that's totally true if you stay up and that's once the sun's coming up.
You can get through the next day pretty well.
You may feel tired especially if you've been awake.
Especially if you've been marching and walking to keep awake.
You won't feel fresh.
You'll feel uncomfortable.
But other people will not notice anything wrong with you unless you sit down to relax with nothing important or interesting to do then very likely you'll do as off.
If you have a job that requires accurate movements or accurate thinking you'll probably make no more mistakes than you usually do.
So that's saying hey if you stay for 24 hours you're still going to go.
Next day.
Which I know you've done this at the master or close to it.
Right?
What you've done like an hour sleep to hours sleep?
Yeah.
Maybe for one day.
And the next second day you kind of hit the rag reel.
Yeah.
Big time.
The second night you won't want to stay up but you may have to.
Another March maybe necessary the enemy may attack and it's the second night and the second night is like the first.
But more difficult.
It's harder to keep active under your own power.
Yet you can if your officers in the enemy furnace the motivation.
You don't want to keep your mind on any topic very long.
Your thoughts and ideas will trail off into a relevant season.
If you can possibly get a chance to relax you will and then you'll go to sleep.
You ought not to be on century duty but you may keep awake by walking.
Or if you go off into an in-intensive days while you continue walking.
By this time you're probably getting quite irritable.
Little things provoke you and you may talk some nonsense.
Your anger does not last though you'd rather go to sleep.
The day after the second sleepless night is better than the preceding sleepless night.
But you'll be irritable, rambling and a logical and speech thought in in-intensive more than usually sensitive to pain.
Your eyes itch you may begin to see double you can't sit down or read.
Your hand ready becomes bad and pence made drop from your hand.
You may even begin to have hallucinations imagine events that do not really happen.
As if you'd be going to dream while you are still awake.
You can still be spurred to your full mental powers and manual dexterity if this is stimulus is strong enough.
If your commander demands your attention if a shell comes over but the effect of these things doesn't last as long as it would normally.
Pretty soon you're back to where you were with the most important thing in your world is to need the need to shut your eyes and go to sleep.
Wounded soldiers coming out of combat after many days and nights of continuing continuous flightings.
Fighting may be so terribly a need of sleep that even the severe pain of wounds is not keeping them from going sound asleep as soon as they are allowed to lie down.
Antisetics can be dispensed with.
So there you go. There's your second day and now you're in your second day.
Second full day without sleep. How long can you go without sleep?
You can manage a third night without sleep and maybe a fourth with all the symptoms getting worse with attention harder and harder to command.
With more activity necessary to keep you awake.
Psychologists once kept himself awake for four whole days spurred only on by scientific motive for seeing what would happen next.
With those doses of a stimulant.
Bens of dream which is like an anphetamine which I had to look up to help.
He may actually he actually kept himself awake for eight whole days and seven nights.
There was a man wants to believe that sleep was a bad habit which ought to and could be overcome.
He was given a watchman's clock on which to record every ten minutes the fact that he was awake.
He stayed awake almost continuously for nine and a half days missing only 31 out of 1,388 recordings of the ten minute intervals.
Of course he got some other catnaps during the ten minute intervals.
As time or on he became dazed. He could keep appointments at the wrong time or in the wrong place or both.
He got so he couldn't so that he was not always sure where he was at the end of the time he was beginning to have hallucinations and delusions of persecution
and had become so cantankerous that the experiment had to be stopped.
He just turned into seeing just got so angry.
It just had to shut it down.
Like it wasn't like he was going to die. He was just real mad at everyone.
Like we can't take this anymore.
So that's pretty accurate.
Going back to books sleep soon restores the sleepy man or animal.
The men who stay awake for two or three days are generally in pretty good shape after a 12 hour sleep
and show no effects at all after two or three normal nights. That's totally true.
You can get yourself back to normal real quick.
The whole trouble and sleeplessness is with attention and thus higher levels of the brain which are necessary for attention.
The soldier who loses sleep is becoming inefficient because he can no longer keep his mind on the job.
On any job except the one job of getting relaxation closed eyes and sleep.
He can be stimulated into attention by activity by a four-tative command by danger.
But the effect of the spur last less and less is time less and less time as he gets sleepier.
When spurred he can do almost any simple task as about as well as usual.
Unless it is a task that requires attention, alertness and judgment, then he begins to fail.
Being frustrated by not being allowed to sleep, he becomes irritable,
illiterate and perhaps even unmanageable. His morale goes down. He is no longer a good comrade.
But his recovery will be rapid. Given sleep, which is all he wants and pretty soon he'll be back, his old competent friendly alert self.
That's all right in an emergency, but ordinarily soldiers should have enough sleep.
They need to be alert whether for study or combat, whether driving a truck in America or firing an anti-tank gun in Africa or Europe.
Enough, regularly sleep from taps to first calls should be the rule.
Except when the enemy decrees otherwise, there is no rule about the amount of sleep the young adults must have.
Some get cranky and irritable when cut down from seven hours and night to five.
Others do not. The unit with high morale can do with less sleep, but sleepy men tend to have low morale.
These two forces work against each other.
There is also no rigid rules about the details of sleep.
No rules that apply to everyone alike.
And actually it's interesting because I'm here right now on a very minimal amount of sleep.
I had to fly to DC, I had a meeting in DC, it went late.
And when I got done with the meeting, got back to my hotel at midnight,
I had to prep this podcast. I was on West Coast time, so I was like, well, it's only 10 o'clock or whatever, 9 o'clock.
So I just stayed awake, my car pick up was at 3. I probably slept 40 minutes.
And then I did sleep on the plane, flying back from the east coast out to here.
I got at least probably three hours of sleep there uncomfortable.
You know, just not. Is that even sleep? We don't know. What does that count as?
And not try not. Don't have much sleep right now.
You don't pretty good. Yeah, it doesn't matter.
When people call you can't perform, I don't know. When people freak out and say, you can't.
There's no way you can perform as well. When you're sleeping, if you don't have enough sleep, it's like, I get it.
Hey, I'm not anti-sleep. If you need to sleep, mentally, as much as you can.
Sleep as much as you can. Sleep eight hours a day, sleep 10 hours a day.
I don't care. I'm not against you. I don't hold it against you.
But there's two things. Number one, if you have a lot of things that you need to do, and you spend a lot of time in bed, the things that you need to do, and it can happen.
So you may need to get out of bed and get things to happen. Number two, I don't even.
I have horrible feeling if I sleep a lot.
Not just, okay, I feel bad because I missed on doing some stuff that I'd probably need to do.
Also, I don't feel more rested.
Oh, yeah. Okay. I don't feel more rested if I sleep eight hours.
I feel sometimes worse.
So, yeah, and he essentially said everyone's different.
Yes.
Like there's no 100% of that.
So, man, I'm completely opposite.
I feel way more rested. Even seven hours, I'm good.
Six hours is I'm fine. Six hours. Two days in a row. I'm not that's when those symptoms start to creep.
Seven hours every single day, I find eight hours.
I feel like a boost.
I'm like, I'm a nine hours. I don't know if I could go nine hours more than one or two nights in a row.
Just physically, I just got up and went there.
But, oh, I could do the nine hours, and I'd be like, so all it's all it's all it's all it's all it.
After trying something out, after trying out and see if I feel more solid.
But you, you, you, you, you know, like you said people say, hey, you,
you, there's no way you can perform at your at your highest if you're like sleep deprived of whatever.
I would imagine just like how, you know, how they say in here that everyone's different.
Like your optimum versus your sub optimum,
you might be like super small, you know, where, you know, you feel little teeny tiny effects,
but your output or the results of your output or whatever are pretty similar.
They're almost pretty much unnoticable, even though,
you know, you could have done a little bit better with more sleep kind of thing, but, you know, just like,
and then opposed to me where, man, I go five hours of sleep.
The difference between six hours of sleep and five hours of sleep for me is like,
I feel like a completely different person.
Like, there is, yeah, I am, and there is one time,
it's like, remember because I was talking to life.
So it was the time when life was in town.
I got like, very hard-laning hours of sleep.
And I remember talking to them and thinking,
I believe, I think I'm stupid. I didn't even really make sense.
I mean, I don't know if you noticed it, but I noticed it.
But then, yeah, if I got like six or seven or whatever school?
Well, for everyone that freaks out,
I'm not saying don't sleep.
Sleep, sleep a bunch.
Sleep all you want.
It's fine.
You don't sound very confident, or you don't sound very like,
well, it's probably because I don't, because you only got three hours of sleep.
Well, yeah, you're irritable.
You're irritable right now.
I think it's because I get that you should sleep,
but I think people take advantage of it real quick.
That makes sense.
They start just getting into, you know,
I am just going to sleep all the time.
It's like when someone says, dark chocolate is good for you.
He don't know what's in it.
I don't know.
You don't know what's in it.
You don't know.
I don't know.
You don't know what's in it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then it's like, well, is that include dark chocolate cake,
Is that include dark chocolate, triple-flunch ice cream?
Because is it dark chocolate?
Is good for you.
So I'm in the game.
So sleep is good for me.
So I'm not getting out of bed.
Yeah.
So, but whatever, I, I, I encourage people to sleep.
And I, it's not, the other thing is that it's crazy.
It's not like I don't sleep.
I sleep.
I sleep almost every day.
You know what I mean?
But it's good.
I don't want my everyday.
Go on this every day, I sleep.
No, I see just about every day.
I go to bed at 10, 10, 30, 11, 11, 30.
Somewhere in there.
I wake up at 4, 30, maybe 4, 20, maybe 4, 32.
But that's a lot of sleep.
That's between five and six hours every day.
Yeah, I mean, I guess, for your standards.
But to people freaking out.
So no reason.
Well, I mean, for people who are sleep deprived,
and they do have differences, which is very interesting.
OK, this much I do know.
I do know this for a fact.
When I have less sleep, I'm more emotional.
Oh, yeah.
And you know what?
I actually, it actually is helpful for me.
Oh, dang.
Yeah.
Like I like to be sleep deprived somewhat.
I don't know what sessions I say.
I like to sleep a little bit less,
because it's more, it makes my life a little bit more
on edge, which I like.
Actually, what's fun is you've said that one time.
When you're like, I like a little bit of sleep depth.
Just a little bit.
That was weird when you told me I was like,
I see where you're saying, because it's almost
like a comfort thing, right?
Like if you're too comfortable,
like you might be more inclined to relax.
Oh, it was kind of idea.
Even though, I mean, I can't really get down with it
because the more stress it, I am the more happy I'm going to feel.
And you, like, you say emotional.
And in the book, it's it irritable, right?
Or something that I think it's the same thing.
I'm with you.
I'm with you man.
Irritable like to kind of like,
I'm irritable with like stuff, not even like inanimate stuff.
But I'm like, my phone isn't connected to my Bluetooth.
And like, car quick enough.
I'm like, what's wrong with this thing in my head?
You know, that kind of stuff even.
But then if I'm rested, bad enough.
No factor.
Maybe it won't work at all.
I'm scared to death.
So I like that little bit of edge
because part of it is because things like that never bothered me.
So I was like, oh, whatever my phone didn't connect.
So you're kind of dead inside.
Yeah.
I'd rather bring it back to life.
So I'll let you get a little anchor.
Your ability.
Make it good.
Anyways, that's where I want to stop for this podcast
about this book and on the next book.
And actually this is like the warm up.
And I think the second half of the book is is even better.
It's when it gets into the morale.
It's when it gets into leadership.
It's when it gets into the psychological warfare,
offense and defense.
And so we'll pick that up on the next podcast.
I want to do one more little passage from this book here.
It's a shorter passage.
But it's just again, just a reminder of what
what war is going back to and we go on
by Will Bird.
Here we go.
We found the cartoon and hardly recognized it.
The sergeant was there and McDonald,
but the rest were strangers.
They told me that the 73rd of the fourth division
had been so caught up that they had been with Dron
and the 85th Nova Scotia Highlanders had taken their place.
The remnant of the 73rd had been divided
between us and the 13th.
I got McDonald to one side and asked questions.
It was far worse than I thought.
The 42nd had gone straight through to their objective
despite the slidysnow and mud and confusion
had driven back all opposition and seized their objective.
But on their left, the fourth division
had been held up and a flanking fire had taken a heavy toll.
Freddy was gone.
He had predicted truly.
A big shell had landed beside him, killing him
and burying him.
Charlie had fallen in the first rush, riddled with bullets.
Joe, the ex-plameesman, had fought through to the objective
and had been killed by a sniper on the flank.
One shell had wiped out Stephenson, Therough,
and Roy as they grouped by a captured gun.
Mick Millen had been shot in the stomach
and it died after waiting hours in a trench.
Billy, the complainer, had fallen as he had charged
the machine gun, keeping on until he was almost
within reach of the gunners.
Little Gil Roy had been killed.
And Westcott, Smaley, had been wounded.
Huggy, the sergeant had been defied
and had been wounded at the same time
and had been taken away together.
Big Herman was missing.
They located his body a month later.
That morning, he had shaken hands with Freddy,
said goodbye to him.
And then when he had got going, had run a muck.
He was found to almost at the bottom of the ridge
near a battery position with eight dead Germans
about him, four of them killed by bayonet.
And then in the other platoons, besides Tommy,
Slim and Joe had survived, and Iron Sam,
and Big Glenn and Eddie, and Mickie and Jerry.
They sat in the dugout that night
after a hard day of rebuilding roads,
each man suffering from bodily fatigue,
and crawling with vermin,
and the clammy chill of mud, cate clothing,
their faces brooding, and agmatic,
even Mickie's curiously odd,
only their eyes moving.
They would not talk about the fighting,
and seemed utterly worn.
Six months ago, we had marched eagerly,
bravely, artin hats a skew,
and with a cheeky retort for every comment,
hiding whatever secret apprehensions we had,
not knowing the heavy ominous silence
that follows the burst of big shells,
and the cries of the wounded,
not knowing what it is to scrape a hasty grave at night,
and there, bayonet man,
who has worked with you,
and slept with you, since you enlisted.
And clearly, war is hell.
It's a physical, and it is a psychological hell.
And the more we know about it,
the more we should understand that war is to be avoided
as much as humanly possible.
But it also teaches us how strong we,
as human beings, can be what we can overcome.
It teaches us the importance of training,
the importance of preparation,
the importance of will,
not only the will to win in war,
but the will to carry on into win in life.
And we all have that power,
and we just need to find it.
And to win.
And I think that's all I've got tonight,
so echo Charles,
speaking of winning.
I know we are sort of trying to be on the path of winning mentally,
physically, psychologically, in life,
and on the mats.
And I know that's sort of the thing we're doing here,
the movement.
And I know you have some recommendations for that.
Yes, my be helpful.
Yes, they will be helpful.
Oh, actually.
Nice, nice.
What do you got?
I have, well, we're on the path, right?
We've got that.
Wait, war.
Life is war.
We're asshole.
What is it for?
We're all at war.
Yeah, all at war.
All at war.
Now, total war.
Total war.
That's what we're looking for.
Yes, total war.
So we're being that total war.
There's little battles.
I think people are not going to like that.
What?
Life is war.
But it's so true.
Yeah, I mean,
if you start looking at your life,
like it's war,
that's going to make you better.
Yeah.
If you look at everyday as a war,
on multiple fronts that you have to fight,
you know, where victory is the only choice you're going to have a better life.
Actually, it's really good.
Even for someone who look,
I get it.
The word war might trigger some people.
Just like the word fight might trigger some people,
but you could say,
life is a fight.
It's always a fight.
Not against people.
My suspicion is the amount of people
listening to this podcast that is triggered by the word to war.
Or fight is zero.
Zero, yes.
I agree with you.
That's my suspicion.
Yeah.
I could be wrong.
But they're severely triggered at this point.
If that's where they're at.
So the only thing we talk about is fighting in war.
Yes, I think you're right.
I believe.
Okay.
You're right.
So within the,
all out war, there's little battles.
Right.
And in those battles,
one of those battles is the jujitsu.
When you do the jujitsu,
you're going to need a key.
Anirash card.
Just to begin.
That's what I think.
So actually technically you could wear basketball shorts on a tank top.
You could not recommend it.
Not recommend it.
Especially the basketball shorts.
Yeah.
They will be pulled down.
Pulled down, pulled up, caught on people's toes.
Yeah.
Sometimes just not a good plan.
Not as good as like, yeah.
Maybe some board shorts because they don't as far as,
yeah.
Nonetheless, this is where you get these things from.
Origin.
Origin main.com.
That's where you go.
Get a rash card.
Get a geek.
Basky in the world, factually, by the way.
Also happens to be made in America.
Are they the best because they're made in America?
Maybe, maybe not.
Mmhm.
But those are two separate ways.
Oh yeah.
Basky is in the world.
Many different options are also rash cards.
Like I said, also joggers.
Yeah.
Like I said before.
But yeah, a lot of clothes.
A pair of clothes.
What you're missing is jeans.
Yes.
There are jeans.
Yeah.
Wait, can we get jeans now?
We should be getting jeans now.
I know I have Origin jeans.
I know I'm in a little bit of a preferred scenario.
Well, yes.
I know people.
Yeah.
So I was going to say, wait, if we can all get jeans.
No, that's interesting because I didn't get jeans.
Yeah.
Well, the jeans are being made at this time.
So they're available.
We'll say.
I'm American denim.
American made.
Best jeans ever.
Obviously.
And yeah, check them out.
Yeah.
Orgy made.
Also supplements.
Best kind of supplements.
So I can't come to the conclusion that the harsh conclusion and that exercise generally speaking is probably the best thing you can do for yourself.
Okay.
Generally speaking, I'm not saying there's no exceptions.
I'm not saying that.
Yep.
And you're not saying that throw everything else into the dumpster.
Correct.
Yes.
So when it comes to supplements, okay.
So what's the best kind of supplements to take then?
If we understand that exercise is the best thing you can do for yourself.
What kind of supplements?
Is it like a muscle building supplements?
Or is it?
This is what I'm asking myself as I'm driving.
Because I drive some.
Or is it the kind of supplement that allows you to stay able to exercise at full capacity longer?
Probably those right?
I know what you think.
Yeah.
You like the joint warfare, acrylic oil.
Yes, sir.
You like the discipline.
Right.
Because I say this because it's not just intuitive.
You think supplements give my body bigger or whatever stronger.
But what if you do want to get more yoke to let's say how much you get some of that more?
The like you said, we don't throw everything else into the dumpster.
I'm just saying this is, you just say, I go in the road and I eating whatever.
And when I go on the road, I go on the trip.
I usually really good because I go on to a steak restaurant and I get rib eyes.
Yes, sir.
No matter what when I come home, I want to have more.
Yeah, I could have that mid-chalkochip mold.
Because it's like a dessert.
Boy, this is a dessert.
It's a dessert.
Without the guilt.
We actually crap.
Yeah.
That's literally good for you.
How can you get a dessert that's actually good for you?
I'll tell you how.
You go to originmate.com.
You get milk.
Kids.
Is it a feeding kids junk?
That's horrible for them.
You get them some more.
Your kid milk.
You will have kids that want to drink something that's awesome for them.
Yep.
And by the time it's a meal, by the way, they will be stoked to get your kid some more.
Your kid milk tasty.
People who are asking about what the strawberry adult milk is coming out.
I don't, I don't, I don't be little.
Do not mess this up.
I'm like, little.
The strawberry kids milk is epic.
It's epic.
Yeah.
I said, if you mess up and the adult strawberry milk is an epic, we're going to have an
issue.
It's a problem.
So be little on the case.
Yeah.
Well, he's on the case.
Yeah, man.
It's true.
Also, joc was a store.
It's called jocos store.
So go to jocos store.com.
This is where you can get.
Shirts, hoodies, restaurants.
More rashguards.
All representative of this path that we're on.
And we're on the path.
Certainly.
And we're going to stay on the path.
We just stay on the path until the path path ends and guess what?
The little answer to that little little.
That little little path doesn't hit.
That does.
So if you want to represent jocos store.com, got some new stuff on there by the way.
Well, a little new design of the hoodies.
You know, it's a little really like that one.
None of the let's hey, look, go check it out.
If you like something.
Trock it or something.
Trunks.
Stickers.
There's some.
Yeah, but there's bumper sticks on there.
This patches on there.
There's more.
I just designed a new rashguard.
It's not like totally new with a new rashguard.
Okay.
Sent it to Pete.
We're getting it done.
It should be there.
And you know, within the week.
Also, I know where you talk.
A lot of trashed me about light weight.
He's there.
We're going to do a light weight.
100%.
It's in the pipe.
Okay.
Jockel unapproved.
But when you see it, it's going to be approved.
Anyway, if you like something gets on.
If I was going to wear a light weight hoodie, I would just wear a t-shirt.
Bro.
Yeah, I did it.
But some of us, you know, we like that there's like this little intermediary
Puzzah situation where it's not hot.
It's cold, but it's not cold cold.
You don't like when the wind blows consistently.
And you're like, you know, I could only buy the grace of decentralized command.
That this is happening.
Yes.
Because despite what you're saying to me, a medium or whatever you said, a light weight hoodie
makes no logical sense to me as a human.
What?
You know, that's one of the many differences between me and you.
And I think that there are a lot of people out there who support me on this decision.
Which is what we will track and see if anyone buys light weight hoodie.
Going to the numbers.
Okay.
And also there's women's double present them to the people.
Yeah.
Cool. Well, there it is.
Anyway, jockelstore.com. There's some women's stuff on there that it's this cool stuff.
You've like something to get some.
It's a good way to represent for sure.
Also, jockel white tea.
Mm-hmm.
If you want to deadlift 8000 pounds, if you're not already.
Okay. This is the reason or one of the reasons.
Unless you're already a tea drinker.
Even if you're not a teacher, because that wasn't a teacher in the night.
Jockel white tea.
So I am a teacher in Karte.
Technically.
This is the original.
This is like the first thing.
What?
How am I to make something?
I'm going to make this tea.
Oh, the first thing.
The first thing.
The OG product.
Yeah.
I had some on the way over here.
You know what's funny, man?
Because I was a little bit chilly.
I wanted some warm tea.
I could have used a little light weight hoodie.
Anyway, it's interesting how all these products is all stuff that you use.
So you're like, you're like walking, not walking, but you're just sort of existing.
You're like, instead of like, you know, getting this stuff, let me just make it.
So it, and it turns out, like, you make all your own stuff.
Well, the thing is, if you're going to, I'm picky.
That's my problem.
I'm picky about what I like and what I don't like.
Yeah.
And so yeah, well, I'm straightforward, but I'm picky.
I want this specific thing a specific way.
And you can't buy what I want or you couldn't.
Right.
You couldn't buy what I want.
Now you can.
This is what I want.
It makes sense.
It's like everything.
Like the jit like victory MMA and fitness are gym.
Yeah.
Why is that?
Why does it exist?
Because we want it to have the way we want things to be.
You can't just, you can't go to someone else's gym and expect it to be the way you want it.
Yeah.
You can't buy some supplement off the shelf and expect it to taste the way you want it to taste.
It's going to taste the way some random person in some other area.
You can't just want it to taste.
They don't know what tastes good.
Well, and they're going to take one.
Let's say figure that it's putting it there just trying to make the maximum profit margin.
So they're putting filer in whatever.
Yeah.
So it exists.
Make totally mix.
If you're going to make something, then if you have to, if you want to use something, why not make it the way you want it.
Origen jeans, by the way.
Same thing.
Yeah.
So the way I want them to be made, the way Pete likes or make.
You know, in America.
So anyway, yeah, that's how we end up doing this stuff.
Boom.
Yeah.
Good.
I'm glad you did it by the way.
Oh, and there's some people.
We joked about subscribing to the podcast.
I saw some comments that people didn't hadn't subscribed to the podcast until the last show.
This dude was like, I listened to a hundred and see 63 episodes and I never subscribed to the podcast.
Until you said and joked about who would listen to a hundred and 63 episodes and not subscribed to the podcast.
And he said, that was me.
So there might be one other person out there that hasn't subscribed to the podcast or hasn't subscribed to the YouTube channel.
Or hasn't subscribed to the Warrior Kid podcast.
So if you haven't subscribed to those things, do so.
Wait, what do you mean you stand corrected?
You're the one that always says like there might be someone that's an I didn't believe you.
I think I don't know if I'd ever say for subscribing.
But it was.
Yes.
I always said or feel that it seems obvious.
Subscribe.
But subscribe.
And I always thought that that was dumb.
Yeah. And I thought to myself, who could listen to this podcast over and over again and not subscribe to it?
But that rubbed off on me and I started to feel that way.
In fact, because right now I'm trying to search my feelings and I do feel that way.
Like, yeah, why are you telling people to subscribe?
So we don't even know anyone.
But now what I'm saying is we got reports back from the field of people that didn't subscribe yet.
162 podcasts deep.
Huh.
And now we're 164 podcasts. If you haven't subscribed to the podcast, subscribe.
If you check out the YouTube channel, by the way, the YouTube channel echoes videos around there.
He's real proud of him.
He's a kid from the world.
He puts little things explode.
Some people think it's too much.
Well, some people think it's too much.
Sometimes they're sometimes they're.
Sometimes they're right in there.
It's a dichotomy.
You got a balance in dichotomy.
No.
No effects too many effects.
Yeah, well, it's there's varying levels of appropriateness with effects.
Yeah.
So at some point, I want you to purposely make a video that's completely.
You take whatever I've said on this podcast.
That's over the top anyways.
Yeah.
And you just make the most over the top video.
That is a good idea.
I remember one time I said, don't sleep eat steak train her or something like that.
That's what that's what the video should be.
To be about that, just guys with broken legs crawling out on the mat with a steak hanging out of the mouth.
You know, like that kind of thing over the top, everything exploding.
A fire.
Because a lot of times your explosions don't have fire.
A lot of times they're just smoking more.
More like smoking dust.
Yeah.
You keep it dark.
Yeah, there's explosions more just like just like various levels of destruction.
What is it?
So check that out.
Check out the warrior kid soap and Irish Oaks Ranch.com young eight and making or your kids soap.
Check out psychological warfare.
Little kid bits of information to help you overcome momentary weakness.
I'll tell you how to do it.
It's not real complicated.
Yeah.
But it is effective.
Check.
Amazon music to see if you can get it.
Yeah.
I'm going to do by MP3.
That's really that's called psychological warfare.
It's a good one.
Very much so also you want to subscribe to the warrior kid podcast.
I said that.
I'm glad you're emphasizing it though.
Well.
Yeah.
I thought you didn't say that.
Okay.
I think I missed that.
That's nice.
Nonetheless, yeah, yeah.
It's a good one.
That's a good one for you and the kids.
Both of you guys.
They're there.
Good lessons, but they're super basic.
Just like this.
Just like this bookman.
Very much so.
Also.
On it.
On it dot com.
Go there slash.
Go on it dot com slash.
This is where you can get kettlebells.
Add to your home gym.
Add to your capability.
Rings.
Add to that capability.
I just got some.
The storm trooper.
One.
Star Wars.
Straight up.
Brad, don't hate on that.
Rises.
There they're dope.
Then last time we were a lot of good stuff on there.
Good fitness stuff.
When you think of storm troopers.
Do you actually think of like bad ass?
Yeah.
No.
Because I always think of them.
Things that get showled.
Yes.
And that is true.
That is true.
But.
Are they humans?
Yeah.
They're people.
They're troopers.
Actually, I think they're clones.
Okay.
People.
So they're just that's why they're just father.
They just get killed by laser beams all the time.
In the movie.
Yes.
But when you see a storm trooper kettlebell.
It's pretty cool.
Okay.
And there's a Darth Vader one.
There's an Iron Man one.
And there's a bubble fat guy.
We're single fat.
We're both on one.
We're all dead.
They're one is where the clone came from.
If I'm not mistaken.
I can't just.
I don't know.
I might have got my Star Wars mythology mixed up.
But nonetheless, they are kettlebells now on it.
Make some and they're dope.
A lot of cool stuff on there on it.
Nothing.
Slash.
Jockel.
We got Mikey in the Dragons book.
That's available right now.
For every kid that you know.
Get a Mikey in the Dragons.
Way the warrior kid.
And way the warrior kid to marks mission.
Those are books to show your kid how to be on the path.
And now we have coming warrior kid.
Three.
Which now has a subtitle.
And the subtitle is where there's a will.
So he has to dig deep in this book.
Learn a little bit about digging deep.
He also learns a little bit about humility.
He learns about ego for the first time.
He starts getting involved.
So check out those books that I will let you know in a warrior kid.
Three is available for pre order.
Which we're going to be a little bit more efficient this time.
And we do pre order.
So we don't get into the Mikey in the Dragons situation where people have to wait a little extra time to get the book when it comes out.
So.
Book free.
I'll let you know when that's ready.
The field manual.
Discipline goes freedom.
Field manual.
Available right now.
I was with a buddy of mine that say.
In the finance world and has, you know, one of those.
I guess it would be a stereotypical office of the finance, the investment bankers.
So you know what I'm talking about?
Everything is all clean.
New York City type there.
And he showed me a picture in there as you walk in this beautiful clean office.
Entry way.
It's not even office.
It's like a thing.
A thing.
A four year.
Yeah.
One of those.
And there's a white table.
You know, it's probably eight by eight.
Yeah.
There's one book by itself.
The field manual.
And he says his, his, his, from office, growing up in the day said,
Everyone that comes in looks at that book and says,
What is this?
Where did this come from?
Where did you get this?
Every single person.
Yeah.
So that's the field manual.
Discipline goes freedom.
Field manual.
Get it for anyone that needs to.
It'll help.
Being on the path.
Yeah.
And you know, who needs help you on the path?
Everybody.
Extreme ownership.
First book.
I wrote with my brother, Lave Babin.
Leadership lessons from the battlefield.
And then we wrote that dichotomy of leadership, which
gives some guidance on how to be more balanced as a leader because if you get out of balance as a leader,
you go extreme in one direction or the other in a multitude of various dichotomies.
You will rip your team apart, which is not good.
So dichotomy of leadership and get that one.
We also got echelon front, which is.
Heart leadership consultancy.
And that's what we do is we solve problems through leadership.
It's me.
It's Lave Babin, J.P.
to now Dave Burke, Flynn, Cochran, Mike's Riley, Mike Bim, go to echelonfront.com.
If you want us to come and work with your company.
Get your leadership aligned and get your entire organization on the path to the victim.
Hit us up.
We have the master, which is our leadership event.
2019 we're doing May 23rd and 24th in Chicago.
We're doing September 19th and 20th in Denver and we're doing December 4th and 5th in Sydney, Australia.
Are you going to Australia with us?
Yes.
Okay.
So that's what's happening.
Every event that we've done has sold out.
And when I say sold out, I mean, we're personal friends of mine are saying, hey,
hey, it's a little late, but can you just say, I just need three seats.
You know, for me and my girlfriend and my buddy, we're going to go.
And I'm like, actually, no, I can't.
There's no more seats and the fire code will not allow any more human beings in there.
So these are all we're going to sell out.
They'll be no alibis.
Like, well, in the military, it's called Safe Rounds Rallibis, meeting like I got an extra round.
Hey, just go one more.
No, it's not going to happen.
So, and don't get mad if that does happen.
You know, oh, jok, you, you know, can't help you.
We have to talk to that fire march.
So, if you want to call sign up early, extremownership.com.
I'll tell you what, the Australia one is going to be.
It's going to sell out quick because I think there's 450 seats.
That is not a lot.
When I did a book signing up in Brizzy of the Brizbean Australia,
Brizbean, there was a ton of people there.
That fluid of Brisbane take to hang out for five minutes, you know,
get a book signed.
So, that one in Sydney is going to be sold out quick.
So, jump on there.
If you want to come down, if you're a trooper in the game, come to the
Muster extremownership.com.
EF Online.
Now, active.
What is it?
It's interactive leadership training online.
It actually puts you into scenarios that you have to figure out
that you have to make decisions.
Combat scenarios, business scenarios, role-playing scenarios,
dealing with people.
It's, it's awesome training.
It will really ingrain the principles of extremownership.
The laws of combat, the dichotomy leadership.
It will ingrain them into you.
It will make you better leader.
That is EF Online.com.
Whether you're a company that wants to use it as enterprise service,
or you're just an individual that wants to get in the game.
Deeper.
Go to EF Online.com.
And we also have EF Overwatch.
We're taking proven combat leaders from special operations and combat aviation communities.
And we're putting them into businesses that need experienced proven leaders.
Go to EF Overwatch.com.
If you're on either side of that calculation,
whether you're a vet that needs work or whether you're a company that needs leaders,
let us know EF Overwatch.com.
And if you want to talk to us,
or you want to share a good book with us like somebody shared this psychology for the fighting man with me on the interwebs.
That's what we can be found on Twitter, on Instagram,
and on Facebook.
Kish.
Eko is at Eko Charles and I am at Jaka Willink.
And of course,
thanks to all of those who serve our military personnel,
police and law enforcement firefighters,
paramedics, EMTs, correction officers,
border patrol, all first responders.
All of you that put on a uniform and protect us.
From evil in the world.
We can only do what we do because you do what you do.
So thank you.
And to everyone else out there that is listening,
remember to train hard.
Do your best to prepare.
Stay in the fight.
And even though you might not feel like it sometimes,
you can drive on.
You can push through.
You can deal with unimaginable adversity.
This long as you keep getting up every day,
moving forward and getting after it.
So until next time,
this is Eko and Jaka.
Out.